# Título: The Problem of the Unionized War Machine - Jewish Currents

>Data: 2023-11-22 05:00:00-03:00
>Tipo: Notícias
>URL: https://jewishcurrents.org/the-problem-of-the-unionized-war-machine
>Origem: [Jewish Currents](https://jewishcurrents.org)
>Idioma: en
>Agregador: GNews

### Conteúdo:

Winpisinger not only took a principled stance, but also grappled with the challenge of winning over union members who saw anti-war politics as a potential threat to their livelihoods. As he wrote to IAM members in a 1978 newsletter, he was aware that even arms industry workers who “genuinely want peace and want to be free from the spectre of nuclear holocaust and the strain of the arms race” were hesitant to speak out against war production for fear of losing their jobs. He urged such workers to support conversion. By pushing the government to divert subsidies away from the arms industry and towards “the possibility of building railroads, mass transit systems, houses, and solar energy systems,” Winpisinger told IAM members, unionists could ensure their own job security while opposing militarism. Through such a transition, “we would get more job bang for the buck than we ever do from the high-tech weaponry of death and destruction,” he said.

Under Winpisinger’s presidency, the IAM championed conversion legislation in Congress. Most notable were a pair of bills that stalled in the 1980s, which would have required military contractors to contribute 1.25% of their revenues toward conversion programs, guaranteed retraining for weapons industry workers if their plants shut down due to Pentagon cutbacks, and created alternative-use committees in military-related facilities to develop conversion plans. The IAM also took on a leadership role in pushing conversion within the broader labor movement, with Winpisinger helping to organize a 1984 conference in Boston that brought together 750 unionists and peace activists from across the US and around the world—including rank-and-file members of the IAM, UAW, United Electrical Workers, and the Communications Workers of America—to discuss ways conversion could be carried out at the local level at shuttered weapons plants.

Despite their promise, Winpisinger’s attempts never made it very far. Faced with the might of the military-industrial complex and the persistence of Cold War-era political orthodoxy, few other national labor leaders, let alone elected officials, ever embraced conversion. Labor’s sharp decline also undermined the nascent effort. By the 1980s, unions were contending with the debilitating effects of deindustrialization, offshoring, free trade, and right-wing attacks, losing members by the hundreds of thousands, including in the weapons industry. In such a weakened state, the US labor movement was even less willing to take up experimental ideas. Still, some of the seeds planted by Reuther and Winpisinger did bear fruit in the 1990s, especially after the disintegration of the Soviet Union and the end of the Cold War made it harder to justify the continuation of massive military spending. In 1992, Congress passed the Defense Conversion, Reinvestment, and Transition Assistance Act, which promised to redirect Pentagon spending towards a “peace dividend” aimed at civilian products and uses. While it fell short of offering a true economic conversion program, this 1992 law nevertheless helped mitigate the effects of military budget cuts on some workers. When employment in the war industry fell by 40% between 1987 and 1996, $16.5 billion in federal funds went to various conversion efforts, including $4.8 billion to stimulate new high-tech industries and $1.4 billion to assist weapons workers affected by layoffs.

These initial steps notwithstanding, a genuine conversion to a peacetime economy never materialized, in large part due to lobbying from the major Pentagon contractors, and to Democrats’ fear of looking “weak” in comparison to war-rabid Republicans. “In the absence of a vision for what would replace the national security state, the arms industry worked on dual-use technology to serve civilian and military purposes, turned to the export market, and consolidated,” writes journalist Indigo Olivier. “Since the 1990s, the number of prime contractors in aerospace and defense working directly with the Pentagon has dwindled from 51 to five due to a dizzying wave of mergers and acquisitions in the industry. With this new monopoly power, arms companies turned more of their attention to elected officials.” Through decades of successful lobbying, the arms companies have continued to secure lucrative Pentagon contracts, further entrenching an economy of permanent war. The gears of this war machine are greased by military aid packages to US allies—the largest of which by far is an annual $3.8 billion for Israel—which are required to be spent in full or in large part on US arms, thereby acting to subsidize the US weapons industry.

Weapons workers keep this war industry up and running, not only by laboring within it, but also by contributing to its popular legitimacy. As tens of thousands of Americans repeatedly take to the streets to call for an immediate ceasefire in Israel/Palestine—a move favored by 68% of the electorate—President Joe Biden has cited weapons industry workers in his bid to sell voters on sending $14.3 billion in supplemental military assistance to Israel. “Patriot missiles for air defense batteries, made in Arizona. Artillery shells manufactured in twelve states across the country—in Pennsylvania, Ohio, Texas,” Biden said in his October 19th Oval Office address, namechecking battleground states in next year’s presidential election. Explicitly echoing Roosevelt, he continued: “Just as in World War II, today patriotic American workers are building the arsenal of democracy and serving the cause of freedom.” In the weeks after the address, Biden’s aides reportedly circulated talking points to congressional allies arguing that supplying Israel with weapons would create manufacturing jobs for US workers. But despite Biden’s attempt to harken back to a time when the labor movement was fully invested in the US war machine, some present-day unionists—in the tradition of predecessors like Reuther and Winpisinger—are beginning to challenge the idea that war is essential to workers’ well-being.





Even if today’s unionists are equipped with the blueprints left behind by previous generations of labor leaders, they face no shortage of challenges in organizing against war. They must work within a US left, and a US labor movement, much smaller and weaker than the one known by their forebears. US unions long ago ceded “management rights” to the bosses, meaning that employers call the shots on what is produced when and how—and that any contest over plant conversion would require a radical expansion of unions’ limited purview. But despite these challenges, organizers have reason to view this as a favorable moment to push for conversion. In recent years, a growing alliance between climate and labor activists has offered a viable model—and seeded a sense of radical possibility—by advancing the idea of a just transition, securing unprecedented federal funding to create millions of good-paying green jobs.

These efforts have been propelled by workers’ growing boldness at the bargaining table. In recent years, unions have become more comfortable bargaining for the common good, putting forth social justice demands that exceed narrow “bread-and-butter” concerns. They have also prepared their members to go on strike in order to achieve ambitious goals. In the UAW’s recent strike at the Big Three automakers, for example, the union fought not only to win a better contract for its members, but also to improve conditions for workers at the companies’ new electric vehicle (EV) battery plants—despite the fact that the plants are not currently unionized. As a result, the UAW managed to bring the EV facilities owned by the automaker General Motors under the union’s national master agreement, extending union protections to thousands of workers in green jobs. Even more impressive, the UAW strike forced the automaker Stellantis to commit to reopening the shuttered Belvidere Assembly Plant and bringing back its 5,000 workers, and to constructing a new EV battery plant that will create an additional 1,300 green union jobs. These constitute victories over “management rights” practically unheard of in the annals of US labor history. By winning something long thought impossible in the context of collective bargaining, the UAW has shown that unions can pressure even the most powerful corporations to change their production decisions in ways that benefit workers and society.

In the aftermath of the EV win at General Motors, UAW president Shawn Fain declared: “Corporate America is not going to force [labor] to choose between good jobs and green jobs.” If the UAW can so clearly and effectively reject the false binary between climate and labor justice, it stands to reason that the UAW and other unions can likewise refuse the choice between war production and workers’ well-being, instead advancing a positive vision for a more socially beneficial economy. As with a just transition, the benefits of conversion could be far-reaching and manifold, perhaps even transforming US foreign policy by removing politicians’ economic justifications for endless militarism. Conversion would also benefit US workers directly. Research shows that cutting Pentagon spending and replacing it with increased funding for healthcare, education, infrastructure, and clean energy would create far more jobs than it eradicated. “Virtually any other form of government outlay, or even a tax cut, yields greater employment than military spending,” writes William Hartung, a senior research fellow at the Quincy Institute for Responsible Statecraft.
