# Título: Mr. Ambassador met Minister of Industry and Minerals - Ministerstvo zahraničních věcí České republiky

>Data: 2023-11-28 05:00:00-03:00
>Tipo: Notícias
>URL: https://mzv.gov.cz/baghdad/en/latest_news/Ambassador_with_MofIndustry.html
>Origem: [Ministerstvo zahraničních věcí České republiky](https://mzv.gov.cz)
>Idioma: en
>Agregador: GNews

### Conteúdo:

H.E. Ambassador Petr Štěpánek was received by the Iraqi Minister of Industry Khaled Battal Al Najm. The main topic of the meeting was the forthcoming meeting of the joint Czech-Iraqi Commission for Economic Cooperation - planned to take place in Prague in the first months of 2024.

At the meeting in Prague, experts from both countries will look for new opportunities to strengthen the Czech Republic's economic cooperation with Iraq. There will also be a meeting between the Minister of Industry and Trade Síkela and his Iraqi counterpart. There will also be a meeting between representatives of Czech petrochemical companies and representatives of the Chamber of Commerce of Iraq.

Minister Khaled Battal Al Najm is convinced that the potential of our bilateral cooperation has not yet been sufficiently fulfilled. He sees new opportunities in the areas of the petrochemical industry, in the construction industry, in the healthcare sector, in cooperation in the defense industry and in the technical education of Iraqi students at Czech universities. He stated that Iraq is open to all offers of cooperation. The minister also invited Czech companies to participate in projects and to invest in Iraqi industrial projects.

From the meeting with Minister of Industry and Minerals

Připravil: Ing. Roman Plevák, Ph.D., obchodní rada, Velvyslanectví ČR v Bagdádu
