# Título: Rethinking Civil-Military Relations in Turkey - Stiftung Wissenschaft und Politik

>Data: 2023-12-01 05:00:00-03:00
>Tipo: Notícias
>URL: https://www.swp-berlin.org/publikation/rethinking-civil-military-relations-in-turkey
>Origem: [Stiftung Wissenschaft und Politik](https://www.swp-berlin.org)
>Idioma: en
>Agregador: GNews

### Conteúdo:

Speaking at the inauguration ceremony in June after being sworn in for the third time as the president of Turkey, Recep Tayyip Erdoğan promised the nation that his policies in the coming five years would “crown the second century of the republic with the Century of Türkiye”. Turkey has undergone a massive transformation in the last two decades since the Justice and Development Party (AKP) rose to power in 2002. Undoubtedly, the reconfiguration of civil-military relations has been one of the most critical markers of such change. The Turkish Armed Forces (TAF) has, under AKP rule, become an executor of foreign policy in an empowered security ecosystem consisting of the Ministry of Interior (MoI), the National Intelligence Organization (MİT), and the defence industry. These shifts in the security environment as such have been shaped by the dynamics of regime change in Turkey and post-Cold War security imperatives.

Pro-government circles continue to cel­ebrate civilian control over the military as evidence for democratisation. For others, who initially welcomed the changing balance of power in favour of civilian rule, the heavy securitisation of policy and poli­tics since 2015/6 demonstrates Erdoğan’s compliance with the republic’s pro-status-quo and tutelary underpinnings. Meanwhile, some in the opposition see the chang­ing balance of power between civil­ians and the TAF as another manifestation of the deteriorating institutional capacity under autocracy. For instance, the military’s absence in response to the tragic earthquake in February has been taken as evidence of a crippled army.

Oscillating between triumph and criticism, these perspectives are misleading. The first view presumes that civilian control over the military is conducive to democrati­sation. Yet, Turkey’s gradual yet steady transition into authoritarian rule over the last two decades shows otherwise. The sec­ond perspective treats the temporal overlap between the increasing militarism and nationalism since 2015/6 and Erdoğan’s alliance with ultranationalist actors as an isolated causality. The agency of the AKP leadership is often overlooked, encompassing not only its vision of state-society rela­tions but also its perspective on Turkey’s global position. The third interpretation of the changing civil-military relations takes the TAF’s nonexistence in domestic politics and policy as a sign of its weakening capac­ity. Turkey’s expanding military footprint in its immediate and far neighbourhood obscures this narrative, begging for a more nuanced view on its seemingly higher operational capabilities.

The changing power balance among security institutions It is widely acknowledged that since coming to power in 2002, the AKP leadership has en­gaged in a concerted effort to diminish the military’s prevailing influence in Turk­ish politics. Lurking underneath this en­deav­our is the ruling elites’ determination to capture and consolidate power. In this respect, the failed coup attempt in 2016 and its aftermath was a watershed moment. Above all, the failed coup attempt and the hundreds of citizens who shed their blood as a result enabled the president to position himself as the embodiment of the people’s will and the charismatic defender of society’s authentic and national values (“yerli ve milli”). Besides the ideational legitimacy, the failed coup attempt also allowed the ruling elites to restructure the entire security landscape, starting with, but certainly not limited to, the military. The failed coup attempt paved the way for unprecedented military purges on the suspicion of having links to Gülen. A series of reforms implemented shortly after radically restructured the TAF. The land, naval, and air forces were brought under the control of the Ministry of National Defense, stripping the TAF of its command role. Military high schools were also abolished, and officer cadres started to be recruited instead from civilian high schools including Islamic high schools (İmam Hatip). Military academies were replaced by the National Defense Uni­versity, which is overseen by the Ministry of National Education. Similarly, military hospitals were put under the Ministry of Health’s administration. Putting the TAF under civilian control was accompanied by further strengthening of other security organisations. The Gendar­merie and Coast Guards, which was effec­tively a branch of the armed forces, was brought under the MoI’s full control via an emergency decree, giving the Ministry an upper hand in domestic security. The aftermath of the failed coup attempt also witnessed the allocation of more heavy weaponry to the Turkish National Police (TNP) under the jurisdiction of the MoI. As a continuation of an already existing trend since the AKP’s rise to power, this meant not only the empowerment of the police, but also that the TNP would take on roles previously performed by the military. In fact, since 2016, the TNP has been the main actor in the war against the Kurdistan Workers’ Party (PKK) inside Turkey. The post-2016 period also saw further changes with the MİT being firmly placed at the centre of the security apparatus and given new capabilities and authorities to balance the TAF and the TNP. Already in 2014, an amendment to the Law on State and Intelligence Services led the MİT to assume operational tasks abroad, signifi­cantly expanding its access to documents and resources of other agencies and strength­ening the criminal immunity enjoyed by its members. Later, at the end of 2016, changes drafted in the context of the country’s en­vi­sioned transition into a presidential sys­tem placed the organisation under the sole con­trol of the president, expanded its influence among the different elements of the secu­rity apparatus, and provided it with foreign intelligence capabilities. At the opening ceremony in 2020 of the organisation’s new building, dubbed ‘the Fortress’ (Kale in Turk­ish), Erdoğan noted that the MİT “played an active role in Syria”, “significantly contributed to the successful execution of our [Turkey] military operations”, and “successfully executed duties in Libya”.

Weak inside, strong outside: The army as a mere executor of foreign policy The AKP not only adopted, but also in­strumentalised this triad of militarisation, professionalisation, and modernisation, in line with its own domestic and foreign policy aspirations. The AKP’s initial com­mitment to EU reforms, initiated during the accession negotiations that began in 2005, helped the ruling party to garner support from both the masses and the elites within Turkey. By the end of the 2000s, the bal­ance of power in civil-military relations was already distorted in favour of the AKP. While the TAF’s dominance in domestic politics continued to decline amid the cen­tralisation and personalisation of power during the 2010s, the army had become more active outside Turkey, arguably turn­ing into “an expeditionary entity”. Today, Turkey has several overseas mili­tary bases, including in Syria, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, and Qatar. Since 2016, Ankara has also added military power to its foreign policy instruments. According to the BICC, Turkey was in 2021 among the top ten most militarised countries in Europe. The mili­tarisation of foreign policy is manifest in Ankara’s operations in northern Syria and Iraq, its military support to the then Gov­ernment of National Accord (GNA) in the Second Libyan Civil War in 2019 and to Azerbaijan in the Second Nagorno-Kara­bakh War in 2020, and in its brinkmanship in the Eastern Mediterranean in 2019/20. Efforts at professionalisation also con­tinue. Today, compulsory military service still exists, but as of 2021, 55.2 per cent of the TAF’s combat force comprised profession­al soldiers. Moreover, the procurement and up­grading of high-technology equipment has been one of the most heated topics dur­ing AKP rule. Motivated by the desire to strengthen the indigenous defence industry, significant investments were made in various areas, including land, naval, and air forces. Notwithstanding, Turkey’s search for a new identity continues as manifest in oscillations, first between the U.S. and the EU, later be­tween its Western allies and their challengers. The AKP’s initial adoption of the F35 Joint Strike Fighter Program (JSF), in which Turkey participated in 1999, was first inter­rupted in the face of the disagreements between Ankara and Washington during the Iraq War. The EU accession negotiations provided Turkey with alternatives such as the Eurofighters, the purchase of which it hoped would pave the way for admission to the then newly established European Defence Agency (EDA). Eventually, Turkey joined the production phase of the JSF in 2007. Yet, Turkey’s relations with its West­ern allies have steadily soured ever since. By the late 2000s, the talk of accession ne­gotiations had almost wholly lost mo­mentum and since 2016, the negotiations are effectively at a standstill. Meanwhile, disagreements in Syria particularly with the U.S., Ankara’s increasingly confrontational foreign policy in the Eastern Mediterranean and elsewhere, and Turkey’s increasing rapprochement with Russia have all deterio­rated U.S.-Turkey relations. Failing to repair relations with its Western allies, the mod­erni­sation effort lost its anchor, with Ankara first signalling its intention to buy Chinese air defence systems in 2013 and later in 2017, buying the Russian air-missile defence system S400s amid the political tensions with its Western allies in the aftermath of the failed coup attempt. In turn, the U.S. removed Ankara from the JSF and sanctioned the Presidency of Defense Industries (SSB).

The defence industry: A boost to the changing security landscape What started as a strategic oscillation between the U.S. and the EU in the 2000s in aircraft modernisation has, over time, culminated in tactical blunders, intensified by, and simultaneously facilitating, Turkey’s authoritarian turn. The initial strategic aim to enhance self-reliance in indigenous defence production as the backbone of the army modernisation programmes was fur­ther solidified albeit under the shadow of deteriorating relations with Ankara’s West­ern allies and more and more out of neces­sity due to Turkey’s increasing isolation. Particularly during the 2010s, the Turk­ish defence industry went through three crucial changes: i) the inclusion of higher technology elements into production such as short- and medium-range air defence systems, frigates, TCG Anadolu, and un­manned armed vehicles; ii) the expansion of the market encompassing old and new companies, ranging from small- and medium-sized enterprises to giants such as Koç, Baykar, BMC, and FNSS; and, relatedly, iii) the privatisation of the sector. Particularly since 2016, overlapping with the mili­tarisation of foreign policy, the defence in­dustry has experienced significant growth with the total turnover of the companies in the field reaching US$8.9 billion in 2020 and contract value hitting US$60 billion in 2022 (compared to US$5 billion in 2002). The number of defence projects between 2002 and 2022 similarly increased from 62 to 812.

A new national identity in the making The upsurge of the defence industry has permeated into society as well. The Ministry of Industry and Technology, in cooperation with the MoI, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, and the Turkish Technology Team – a foundation which was founded by Erdo­ğan’s son-in-law Selçuk Bayraktar whose family owns the defence company Baykar – has since 2018 organised the TEKNOFEST Aerospace and Technology Festival. The latter’s reported aim is to “increase popular interest in technology and raise awareness about Turkey’s transformation into a society that produces and develops technology”. Despite various technology-related topics, including green energy and health, many of the participants at TEKNOFEST are defence companies. The festival is perceived by the AKP leadership as a crucial instrument to garner mass support for securitisation and the ruling elites’ discourse on a “fully independent Turkey”. Accordingly, homegrown products demonstrate the coun­try’s self-sufficiency. TEKNOFEST is indeed a distinct example of the AKP’s im­agi­nation for the nation: rooted in society’s authentic values and local knowledge, in­dependent (particularly from the West), and self-confident to carry the nation forward. This unique combination of the claim to authenticity, militarism, and techno-nation­alism distinguishes the AKP’s militaristic discourse from previous periods. “Every Turk was born a soldier” was the famous motto of past militarist discourse and accom­panying indoctrination mechanisms. Today, an engineer or an entrepreneur involved in the production of military technology is not only capable but is also expected to con­tribute toward making Turkey independent. For Selçuk Bayraktar, for instance, his drone-producing company Baykar redeems the “self-confidence” that was lost when “the center of gravity [in science and inno­vation] shifted, a century and a half ago, toward the West”. Soap operas produced by the state broadcaster TRT also help deliver this message. Gönül Dağı (Gönül Mountain), for instance, portrays the efforts of three cousins in a remote town in Anatolia to produce tech­nology. Teşkilat (Organisation), on the other hand, tells the story of the MİT trying to uncover a deadly operation organised by foreign intelligence services against Turkish engineers designing drones.
