# Título: U.S. and Ukraine Collaborate on Local Production of FrankenSAM for Enhanced Air Defense - Militarnyi

>Data: 2023-12-07 05:00:00-03:00
>Tipo: Notícias
>URL: https://mil.in.ua/en/news/u-s-and-ukraine-collaborate-on-local-production-of-frankensam-for-enhanced-air-defense/
>Origem: [Militarnyi](https://mil.in.ua)
>Idioma: en
>Agregador: GNews

### Conteúdo:

2P25 launcher of the Kub SAM with installed RIM-7 Sea Sparrow from the anti-aircraft missile. Photo credits: American company Raytheon and Polish WZU-2

U.S. and Ukraine Collaborate on Local Production of FrankenSAM for Enhanced Air Defense

The U.S. DoD provided Ukraine with technical data to start local production of some of the FrankenSAM projects.

The United States stated that defense companies are also assisting with this process.

The U.S. Department of Defense, the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine, and the Ministry of Strategic Industries of Ukraine signed a Statement of Intent on Co-production and Technical Data Exchange.

The projects are intended to expand the capabilities of Ukraine’s Soviet-era air defense systems by integrating Western missiles.

Co-production of these systems will be launched in Ukraine and the United States.

Buk SAM missile system training in the Kherson region. Photo credits: Joint Forces Command

This should accelerate their deployment and allow Ukraine to make a significant contribution to the maintenance of its air defense systems.

“These initial deliverables will not only expand U.S.-Ukraine cooperation and provide Ukraine with the capabilities it needs to be successful on the battlefield in the short-term, but will support Ukraine’s long-term economic recovery and defense,” the U.S. said.

The White House believes that this step will strengthen the partnership between the United States and Ukraine.

“Today, on Ukrainian Armed Forces Day, the United States government hosted the first day of the U.S.-Ukraine Defense Industrial Base Conference at the Department of Commerce in Washington, D.C. The conference convened around 350 U.S., Ukrainian, and European industry and government representatives to focus on significantly increasing weapons production to support Ukraine’s fight for freedom against Russian aggression, and strengthen Ukraine’s long term self-defense,” the statement reads.

AIM-9M missile. Illustration by Yasutoshi Mori

The U.S. and Ukrainian governments together seek to advance a robust and self-reliant Ukrainian defense industrial base that captures Ukraine’s innovative culture, provides material for urgent military needs, and contributes to Ukraine’s long-term security and economic success.

Previously, American sources reported that the Ukrainian defense industry had allegedly been able to integrate these American missiles with Buk missile launchers.

The United States recently sent AIM-9M and AIM-7 missiles to Ukraine’s air defense system, which are likely intended for these new systems.
