<!-- image -->

## BARRIERS AND DRIVERS FOR AN EFFICIENT INTEGRATION OF ECO-DESIGN OF COMPLEX SYSTEMS: A CASE STUDY IN THE FRENCH MILITARY INDUSTRY

Dupont, Elise; Cluzel, François; Yannou, Bernard

Laboratoire Genie Industriel, CentraleSupélec, Université Paris-Saclay, Gifsur -Yvette, France

## ABSTRACT

The defense industry  tends  to  anticipate  environmental  issues  through  eco-design  integration  in  the overall design process. This leads to focus on the impact of technological and design choices of complex systems  while  maximizing  operational  performance.  Such  development  involves  long  and  complex processes and is constrained in a project owner and industrial project manager context. In this context poorly described in the literature, the objective of this paper is to identify barriers and drivers to achieve an efficient  application  of eco-design.  A  comprehensive analysis  of  the interactions  and  the current design  processes  is  performed  in  the  context  of  the  French  defense  industry.  Through  internal documentation  and  semi-structured  interviews  with  the  key  actors,  the  generic  design  process  of  a project owner is analysed (including relationships with industrial project manager). The failure modes that currently limit the integration of eco-design in projects are also identified.

Keywords : Ecodesign, Complexity, Design process, Military industry, Socio-technical system

## Contact :

Dupont, Elise CentraleSupélec France elise.dupont@centralesupelec.fr

Cite this article: Dupont, E., Cluzel, F., Yannou, B. (2023) 'Barriers and Drivers for an Efficient Integration of EcoDesign of Complex Systems: A Case Study in the French Military Industry', in Proceedings of the International Conference on Engineering Design (ICED23), Bordeaux, France, 24-28 July 2023. DOI:10.1017/pds.2023.72

## 1 INTRODUCTION

Eco-design implementation in complex system industries remains a major challenge. Its efficient and long-term integration requires a transversal investment from companies in the value chain. The design ecosystem is characterized by co-evolutionary dynamics between actors (Gaziulusoy and Brezet, 2015). Environmental defence strategies are defined by the European Union and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization on climate and environmental issues (NATO, 2021; IRIS, 2021b; EEAS, 2021). On one hand, defence organizations seem ready to address climate change as a serious challenge (van Schaik et al., 2020). On the other hand, the improvement to reduce impacts of systems is huge. Disregarding the environment introduces risks and leads to troubles during the life cycle: obsolescence, additional cost, bad image (IRIS, 2021a), delayed acquisition (Michelin and Janin, 2018), impact on health of end-users, etc. Today's design must anticipate tomorrows: geopolitical, threats and conflicts (NATO, 2021), etc.

The environment is too little considered in the design process in the defence domain. In this paper, we are interested in the defence domain and eco-design integration in its processes. Eco-design is commonly an approach  that  aims  to  integrate  environmental  aspects  into  design  process  to  reduce  the  negative environmental impacts of systems throughout their life cycle (ISO/TR 14062:2002). In the defence domain eco-design must also meet the customer desire while fitting the capacity approach (Michelin and Janin, 2018).  This  approach  is  composed  of  human  and  defence  systems,  organized,  trained,  and  supported according to a doctrine, with a view to operational use. The common environmental impacts in the defence domain are the climate change and energy (Ministère des armées, 2022; Maisonneuve, 2022), the pollutant discharges, the evaluation of carbon footprint, etc.

We consider  complex  systems  with  different  sizes  and  operating  environment.  They  are  composed  of platforms (aircraft carrier, drone, etc.) and their equipments (optic, energy supply, etc.). Their specificities are high  operational  expectations,  a  long  lifespan, multi-components  systems,  follows-up  (regular evolutions/retrofitting, evolution of functions and increased performances (cf. incremental approach), etc. As complex system, their design and development commonly involve many stakeholders (e.g. different departments  within  the  same  company,  outsourced  suppliers)  and  it  is  complicated  to  shift  employees' habits and current companies' practices (Saidani et al, 2016). The defence design process is also to be long and structured. Particularly, the final customers (i.e. armed forces) are end-users, well identified and aware of their needs / military effect to produce, in a cost-effective way.

This paper explores  the transition from  the  traditional decision-making  triptych  (operationaltechnological-economic)  to  the  integration  of  eco-design  issues  in  a  complex  and  multidimensional domain,  such  as  defence  sector.  More  precisely,  this  paper  investigates  the  barriers  and  drivers  to efficiently eco-design complex systems in the long-term, in the case of the French defence industry. We  start  with  the  literature  review  on  socio-technical  system,  barriers  and  drivers  of  eco-design adoption  during  complex systems  development,  and  the  integration  of  environmental criteria  in  the military  field.  Then  the  method  of  investigation  is  explained  through  the  research  protocol  and  is enriched with the documents studied, the interviews and emblematic projects. Finally, the results are presented. They consist in positioning the socio-technical system of French defence design, realising a generic design process, identifying failure modes for a long-term eco-design integration, identifying the barriers and drivers and formulating recommendations.

## 2 LITERATURE REVIEW

This literature review explores the design process of complex systems and the long-term integration of eco-design while satisfying customer's needs. It is focused on the way the integration of environmental issues is beneficial or harmful to a multi-partner design project, seen as a socio-technical system.

## 2.1  Socio-technical description of complex system design environment

The concept of socio-technical system is used in the literature to explain how organisational outcomes are the collective result of individual changes (Hiatt and Creasey, 2003). The focus can be evaluative (caused by differing stakeholder needs and values), nested (resulting from two-way interactions between technical and organizational systems) and dynamic complexity (caused by difficulty in predicting system behaviour as well as subtle and unobvious cause-and-effect relationships) (Hollauer et al., 2015). Their paper "capture and analysis of various forms of complexity within the sociotechnical system comprising a PSS [Product-service systems] and their impact on the PSS". The conceptual framework proposed in the  work  of  Gaziulusoy  and  Brezet  (2015)  is  especially  interesting  because  it  studies  design  for

innovation and system transitions with a wide focus on sustainability. They focus on the levels of design and innovation within firms and propose the matrix titled "Co-evolutionary dynamics within the sociotechnical system." This matrix is used as a background for Figure 2, where it is directly customized for the case study presented in this paper. It shows some of the different elements of the socio-technical system  that  influence  change  on  a  co-evolutionary  basis.  The  different  types  of  socio-technical components (institutional, social/cultural, organizational and technological) are scaled (small, medium and large) representing the complexity. When it increases, managing change becomes harder and the pace  of  change  gets  slower.  Also,  small  type  of  socio-technical  system  component  is  hierarchically dependent on larger scales of the same type (Gaziulusoy and Brezet, 2015). The circular arrow in the background frame indicates continuous and dynamic changes, and each element influences each other.

## 2.2  Internal drivers and barriers for eco-design adoption during the development of complex systems

It is interesting to learn from what has been documented in the civil sector about the drivers to integrating eco-design into the design of complex systems. For instance, Bey et al. (2013) mention that, according to their survey, the integration of environmental strategies in manufacturing companies is driven by customer demands and  competitive  edge.  In  the  paper  of  Bossle  et  al.  (2016),  the  internal  factors  are  moreover related  to  efficiency  (by  cost  reduction,  equipment  update,  investment  in  R&amp;D  or  certifications), environmental  capacity  and  environmental  concerns  of  managers  (including  environmental  leadership), quality  of  human  resources  (including  training  and  participation  in  sustainability  programmes)  and environmental strategy (including the culture of the firm).  Liao  et  al.  (2018)  mention  also  that  internal driving factors for enterprises' environmental innovations in China are: industrial competitive environment (market competition), the egoistic motivation (cost saving, resource acquisition and risk avoidance) and green development value.

There  are  also  reasons  to  question  the  barriers  that  prevent  technologies  and  systems  from  easily adapting to sustainable challenges. The significant challenges to sustainably design and construct are the  first  cost  premium  of  the  project,  the  long  pay  back  periods  from  sustainable  practices,  the tendency to maintain current practices, and the limited knowledge and skills of subcontractors (Ahn et al.,  2013).  Additionally,  based  on  a  pre-defined  survey  of  15  questions,  two  clusters  of  barriers  to integrate environmental strategies in manufacturing companies are identified: "Difficulties in finding information  on  environmental  impact"  (on  environmental  impact  plus  expert  knowledge)  and  "No extra resources allocated to new environmental initiatives" (both time and human) (Bey et al., 2013).

## 2.3  Integration of environmental criteria in the military field

The integration of environment (climate change, energy, etc.) in the defence sector generally does not consider  military  systems  and  overseas  operations,  but  only  the  infrastructures  (Department  of Defence,  2019;  Ministère  des  armées,  2022).  Design  in  the  defence  industry  is  driven  by  safety, functionality,  ergonomics,  costs,  strength  and  technical  parameters,  before  environmental  problems (Mrozek,  2021).  The  author  concludes  that  the  main  problem  of  the  armed  forces  is  the  increased carbon footprint emissions. In that sense, Sarewitz et al. (2012) propose three interrelated golden rules to use and manage energy facilities: 1) Reduce energy usage and intensity 2) Increase renewable and on-site energy generation (distributed generation) 3) Improve energy security. According to  Regaud (2021),  the  climate  issue  must  be  incorporated  into  the  military  strategy,  doctrine,  planning  and programming  documents,  and  links  with  other  ministerial development  departments  must  be developed. The  integration of climate change tends to result in the adaptation of military infrastructure, equipment and training. Additionally, IRIS (2021a) studied the strategy of countries to face the climate change and they conclude that " The lack of tangibility of climate change, combined with the military culture, has resulted in an approach to climate and environmental issues through two specific prisms: emergency on the one hand, and technophilia on the other".

To sum up this state of the art, the concept of socio-technical system seems relevant to represent a complex environment. We therefore propose to use it to represent the ecosystem of military complex systems  development.  Moreover,  if  papers  have  been  found  on  the  study  of  barriers  and  drivers  in various domains, few have been found in the defence domain. There is a real challenge to integrate eco-design in the defence domain.

## 3 METHOD OF INVESTIGATION

The paper is the first step of the Action Research approach proposed by Yannou and Petiot (2011). It results in recommendations for long-term integration of eco-design into complex system projects. And it is in accordance with identified barriers and drivers and takes place in the French ministry projects.

## 3.1  Research protocol

The objective of the protocol (Figure 1) is to know where and how to act over the long-term to ensure integration of eco-design into complex  system  projects. We  propose  to  bring out a better understanding of the place of eco-design within DGA (Armament General Directorate of the French government)  and  Thales  company  (defence  industrialist).  It  is  an  opportunity  to  capitalize  on  the potential for sustainability of the military systems.

Figure 1. Research protocol for a long-term eco-design adoption in complex system projects

<!-- image -->

## 3.2  Study of internal documents and semi-structured interviews

The documents study began with the internal documents of both entities. The aim is to understand and describe organizations, design processes (especially eco-design), and the life cycle of military system. Additionally, the socio-technical system is described. The topics of the studied documents are:

- · The  conduct  of  armament  operations:  Ministerial  Instruction  on  the  conduct  of  armament operations i.e. IM1618 (Ministère des armées, 2019), master plans, functional/value analysis, etc.;
- · The industrial interactions: outside the scope of program (showroom, feasibility studies, etc.) and inside (annual meeting, assessment of the environmental maturity of company's organization and operational performance of the eco-design approach (Michelin and Janin, 2018), etc.);
- · Eco-design: guide, reference documents, environmental specifications, call for tender content, etc.

To apprehend the complexity of defence projects, four unstructured interviews were organized with persons in charge of the integration of eco-design within DGA and Thales. It appeared that having interviews  with  people  directly  involved  in  projects  is  a  necessity  (i.e.  military  -  state  engineers  industrial engineers). The interviewees were selected for their expertise on environmental dimensions or because of their involvement at least once in a design process integrating environmental concern. The interviewees' identification was done jointly with the four persons cited previously. We performed 22  interviews:  15  from  DGA  (Worker  from  "Environmental  risk  management",  worker  from "Materials, components and energy", Workers from Capability Coherence, Defence system architect, Functional/Value  analysis  project  manager,  etc.)  and  7  from  Thales  (Product  policy  director,  HSE corporate product, HSE (Health, Safety, Environment) product designer, Product manager, etc.).

Semi-structured format of interviews is retained because the expected answers are qualitative. It allows to give a framework to the discussion while not forgetting the data we wanted to obtain. It also allows to leave the interviewee free to bring up elements that were not anticipated. The interviews were recorded to ensure the validity of the information collected and to be fully focused on the exchanges.

The interviews allowed to know the reasoning and the tools leading to technological/design choices, specially  according  to  environmental  criteria.  They  were  also  useful  to  identify  the  eco-design definitions for each of the two entities. Hereafters are the areas of interest, which were the basis for questions that we asked and were personalized according to the interviewee's area of expertise:

- · The interviewees' contribution to the design phase(s) in which they are involved;
- · The resources they use (tools, methods, reference document, etc.) on environment or not;
- · Their interfaces with stakeholders (internal or external to their domain silo);
- · The analyses leading to technological/design choices: risk analysis, functional/value analysis, etc.

## 3.3  Emblematic projects of environmental integration

A  set  of  military  systems  development  projects  were  selected,  with  the  previous  four  eco-design experts  from  DGA  and  Thales.  They  are  considered  as  the  five  most  emblematic  projects  of environment  integration  shared  by  these  two  partners.  We  don't  talk  about  eco-design  integration because there is no questioning throughout the whole design process.

However, they provide good insights on the environmental impulses in defence projects. The impulses were  through  specifications  and  depended  on  the  experts'  maturity  on  the  subject  at  the  time  of  the project.  They  are  on  reduction  of  packaging,  higher  biodegradability,  increase  of  recyclability  of systems, reduction of hazardous substances, better waste management and reduction of carbon footprint.

The  five  projects  have  few  differences:  The  stakeholders  involved  (at  least  DGA  and  Thales);  the environments  of  use  (air,  land,  surface  water,  etc.);  the  phases  of  integration  of  environmental expectations within the project; the person promoting the integration of the environmental dimension in the project; the environmental improvements retained.

## 4 RESULTS

## 4.1  Co-evolutionary dynamics within military socio-technical system

The design process of military systems is assimilated in this article to a socio-technical system. It is intended  to  integrate  eco-design.  To  act  on  the  long-term,  it  requires  the  identification  of  the influences of the socio-technical system elements and the analysis of their co-evolution. The matrix proposed by Gaziulusoy and Brezet (2015) is thus appropriate. It proposes a visual representation that systematically identifies co-evolutionary dynamics between elementary systems.

Following the literature review and interviews, we identify the co-evolutionary dynamics involved in the integration of eco-design over a long time (from 10-15 years in average to 30 years). We frame the elementary systems of the Figure 2 and we identify the ones (in-)directly impacting the integration of eco-design in military system design. They can be direct (solid lines) or indirect (dotted lines). The following article is based on the ones in solid lines.

Scale of the Socio-technical System Element

<!-- image -->

Integration of eco-design in military system design is DIRECTLY impacted by .

Integration of eco-design in military system design is IN-DIRECTLY impacted by.

The interdependencies of elementary systems must be considered spatially and temporality (Gaziulusoy and Brezet, 2015).

Based  on  the  diagnosis  done  on  the  French  defence  socio-technical  system,  we  systematically identified the elementary elements involved. It is a key to have an enriched design process that include the appropriate stakeholders, responsibilities, etc. in a context of multi-partners projects. The generic design process of DGA's is described in the next section.

## 4.2  Generic systems engineering process

A  systemic  design  model  provides  an  effective  basis  to  build  a  complex  design  process.  We  have modelled the DGA's generic design process (for any military systems and industrial project manager, cf Figure 3). We used a systemic investigation approach based on internal DGA documents describing the design process (especially IM1618) and semi-structured interviews. The resulting systemic design model presents stakeholders and their roles, interactions between DGA and Industrial project manager, and  tools  related  to  (eco-)design  activities.  The  model  has  been  validated  by  eco-design  managers from DGA. They were identified to understand the eco-system of the defence industry and to build the design process. However, in the article, we will work with a simplified model (Figure 3) focusing only on the interactions. The others are not useful for the following study and will be studied in next papers. The model of French (1985) is used as an inspiration to simply represent the defence design process. It is  based  on  a  classical  decomposition  into  four  stages:  analysis  of  the  problem;  conceptual  design; embodiment  of  schemes,  and  detailing.  In  defence  design  processes,  statements  of  problem  must incorporate  capacity  considerations.  The  capacity  approach  is  composed  of  human  and  defence systems, organized, trained, and supported according to a doctrine, with a view to operational use. The DGA's  generic  design  process  (top  of  Figure  3)  presents  how  an  initial  expression  of  the  military forces'  need is  studied through a capacity approach (optional) and then into one or more armament operations (depending on the magnitude of the expected need).

Based on semi-structured interviews, the stakeholders essential for the integration of eco-design are those primordial during the upstream design phase (phases of orientations and technological/capacitated choices,), i.e. architects and project managers.

The interactions  between DGA and  Industrial  project  manager  (middle  of  Figure  3)  are  indicated  by numbers from #1 to #5: (1) Contribution to feasibility studies and acquisition strategy; (2) Contribution to  selection  of  studies  (done  or  to  do);  (3)  Consultation/negotiation;  (4)  Industrial  development, production cycle, industrial test, experimentation plan and proof of concept; (5) Support/maintenance in operational condition (specimens can be delivered for early use/return of experience).

The five  projects  (bottom  of  Figure  3)  are  the  emblematic  defence  projects  selected  in  section  3.3. The starting point of the grey bubble is the one of the environmental improvement of project and the dimension of bubble represents the current state of progress of the project.

Figure 3. Generic model by phases of the systems engineering process centred on the project owner documented with industrial interactions. Position of five 'environmental cases'

<!-- image -->

This study has considered the design process to structure the project into key phases,  to which are associated  design  activities  and  interactions  with  industrials.  They  make  it  easier  to  support  and identify the failure modes for eco-design integration in the projects, presented in the next section.

## 4.3  Identification of failure modes for eco-design integration

The objective of this study is to identify the failure modes of the long-term integration of eco-design at the levels of project owner (DGA) and industrial project manager (Thales). They are presented for the applicative case  of  defence  projects  (assimilated  to a  socio-technical system in  section 4.1)  and  are analysed  with  the  well-known  "non-performance  analysis".  The  failure  modes  are  the  result  of crossing the interviews and the previous socio-technical systems elements with seven themes inspired by the Ishikawa diagram (alphabetically ordered from #1 to #7). They are structured in Table 1. Each of the themes is associated to classes of failure mode(s) and are fragmented into elementary ones, that do not appear in Table 1 for lack of space. The failure modes are then associated to their causes of occurrence.

Table 1. Failure modes and main causes of non-integration of eco-design in defence projects

| Themes                               | Classes of failure modes                                                                                                    | Causes                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
|--------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| environment                          | sufficiently qualified or intended to take  the environment into account in their  daily tasks                              | #1 - External  Not all actors in the project life cycle are  Lack of motivation of actors/companies   Lack of resources: human, temporal, tools  Possibility to ask for defence exemption and  activatable regulatory approval |
| environment                          | Industrial project managers are not  sufficiently precursory in eco-design                                                  | Lack of impulse and budget at high  hierarchical level to get human resources                                                                                                                                                  |
| mean                                 | #2 - Financial Environmental costs are not integrated                                                                       | Environment is not in line with company's  business model                                                                                                                                                                      |
| #3 -                                 | Maintenance  updating of eco-design documents  Low communication and recurrence of                                          | Lack of motivation and resources for  diffusion of news about eco-design                                                                                                                                                       |
| #4 -  Management - project  approach | poorly understood                                                                                                           | Eco-design framework is not known or is Lack of diffusion of good practices, succeed  projects and environmental integration  failure                                                                                          |
| #4 -  Management - project  approach | No dialogue between the architects and  designers and, the purchasing department                                            | Daily work structured in silo                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
|                                      | #5 - Material  Number of standard components  alternatives for a given environmental  and technical expectation is very low | Low purchasing volume  High security/specification expectations                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                      | purchasing and technological choices is  lacking                                                                            | Information on environmental impact of  Difficult to obtain information from suppliers  No data bank for questions of  competitiveness or non-disclosure of  sensitive data                                                    |
|                                      | Difficult access to environmental  archives limiting knowledge  capitalization                                              | Restricted access to data  No system to capitalize the knowledge  Very few methods and tools self-supporting                                                                                                                   |
| #6 - Method                          | Narrow scope of eco-design tools:  Impossibility to simulate effects, usage,  functional and technological scenarios        | Lack of impulse and budget at high  hierarchical level to get human resources                                                                                                                                                  |
| #6 - Method                          | Few cross-disciplinary meetings on  environmental issues                                                                    | Daily work structured in silo                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| #6 - Method                          | the upstream design phases                                                                                                  | Circular economy not fully mobilized in  Circular economy not in line with company's  business model                                                                                                                           |
| #7 - Staff                           | Insufficient staff skilled in eco-design                                                                                    | Lack of impulse and budget at high  hierarchical level to get human resources                                                                                                                                                  |
| #7 - Staff                           | New employees known in their domain  siloed or by the organization chart                                                    | No broadcast channel for these information                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| #7 - Staff                           | Architects reuse parts of systems  designed in the past = Design as usual                                                   | Slow diffusion of new knowledge  High shifting jobs over time project   Historical activities and technologies                                                                                                                 |

It is important to highlight that the failure modes can be common to non-environmental concerns, such as " New employees known in their domain siloed or by the organization chart " or " Architects reuse parts of systems designed in the past = Design as usual ". Those specific to environmental concerns include one or several key words listed alphabetically: circular economy, eco-design, environment(al), exemption and life-cycle.

The data in Table 1 do not appear systematically in projects. They occurred at least once during the experience of the actors interviewed. Moreover, they are mostly common to the project owner and the industrial project manager in most cases and were summarized in one table. The differences between DGA and Thales  concern  the  different  environmental  concern  addressed  within  each  of  them  and, their  translation  into  themes  and  tools  in  the  design  framework.  For  example,  on  one  hand  the translation  of  eco-design  by  DGA  is  global  to  the  life  cycle  and  refers  to  the  control  of  polluting discharges in use and at the end of life, to the control of risks, to dangerous energy frugality and to energy. On the other hand, Thales focuses mainly on the carbon footprint of its products by modifying the amount of mass and energy according to the nature of the use (kinetic or stationary).

The failure modes are used later to identify barriers and drivers of eco-design integration.

## 4.4  Barriers and drivers for eco-design integration

The SWOT matrix is used to identify the  barriers and drivers  to integrate eco-design into complex system projects. It helps to identify the strengths and the weaknesses surrounding design activities and to identify ways of improvement. According to Gürel (2017), "While external analysis focuses on the environmental threats and opportunities facing an organization, internal analysis helps an organization identify its organizational strengths and weaknesses." The "positive forces" column is filled based on internal documents and interviews. No distinction is made between the project owner and industrial project manager cases. Thus, a wide range of internal (i.e., strengths) and external (i.e., opportunities) origins  are  aggregated.  The  themes  "#2  -  Financial  Resources"  and  "#3  -  Maintenance"  were  not specified nor in document neither during interviews. The "negative forces" column is filled in with the information contained in Table 1 and are split according to their internal (i.e., weaknesses) or external (i.e., threats) origin.

Table 2. SWOT analysis of a long-term integration of eco-design in defence projects

| Positive forces                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Negative  forces                                         |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------|
| Strenghts                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Weaknesses                                               |
| Internal origin  #4 - Management - project approach  • Integration of system engineering and tracing of: technical documents, design  process, engineering resources and responsibilities  • Realization of project post-mortem on operational, design, industrial, etc.  #5 - Materials  • Internal discussion network on environmental issues  • Traceability of technical documents, design process, engineering resources and  responsibilities  • Democratization of eco-design good practices: limit multi-material components,  improve material grades and recyclable design, impulse frugality of functions to  meet a need etc.  • Capitalization of information on products: substances, processes of manufacturing,  modes of  bill of materials, etc.  #6 - Methods  • Qualitative answer to environmental questions: energy and material oriented,  • Quantitative and qualitative response through tools centred on technologies products  and management of eco-design by suppliers and through environmental specifications  • Creation of an internal page referencing tools and guides on eco-design  • Trying to tool upstream design phases for people with no environmental  knowledge and requiring low volume of hours to appropriate it  #7 - Staff  • Integration of environment issues in projects through voluntary requests of  capacity (no reglementary) during upstream design phases  • Conducting environmental training for architects, project manager, etc. | Refer to the  failure  topics from  #2 to #7 in  Table 1 |

|                 | Opportunities                                                                 | Threats      |
|-----------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------|
| External origin | #1 - External environment                                                     | Refer to the |
| •               | Integration of environmental dimensions, e.g. climate change;                 | failure      |
| •               | Valorization of good relations project owner - industrial project manager;    | modes of     |
| •               | Keeping annual industrial exchanges on environmental issues;                  | topic #1 in  |
| •               | Keeping historically strong relations and creation of partnerships with SMEs. | Table 1      |

The diagnosis of positive and negative forces was useful to know how integrate eco-design over the long-term  in  defence  projects.  They  respectively  help  to  identify  good  practices  and  areas  of improvement. The panel of improvement is wide: the processes (#4), the tools (#5), the methods (#6), the stakeholders (#7) etc. according to the external environment (#1).

## 4.5  Discussion and recommendations

To make some recommendations on the engineering process, it is important to integrate eco-design from the upstream design phases, so-called "Conceptual design" on Figure 3, which is also acknowledged by the literature. Also, the value analysis is strongly used in the observed processes, and it could therefore be  an  entry  point  to  better  integrate  the  environment  by  including  environmental  criteria.  Also,  the conclusion of the interviews, the discussions and the observations are that approaching the environment through risks aspects (environment risk analysis) could be a good idea because the notion of risk is usual in the defence sector. It would mean preventing environmental impacts by looking at them as potential risks, without waiting for the life cycle analysis which comes in at the very end.

The second recommendation is to focus on the people side of change of Hiatt and Creasey (2003), which plays  a  primordial  role  on  the  unwritten  knowledge  of  structures.  Beyond  tools  and  methods,  it  is important to raise awareness and train people, if not eco-design will not be integrated in the long-term.

This interest of this  study is to  be an  overview  of  the  barriers  and drivers  to  efficiently  eco-design complex systems, in the applicative case of the defence industry. Even if the paper is specific to the applicative case of the defence domain, it can be useful for other industries that are designing complex industrial systems in a project owner / industrial project manager relationship. For instance, it is the case in the automotive industry, aerospace, energy, pharmaceutic, building, etc.

The strength of this study is the adoption  of an "action-based methodology" through the systematic identification  of  elementary  systems  and  the  validity  of  pieces  of  information.  This  information  is collected through semi-structured interviews and internal documents of two different companies: one is a project owner (DGA) and the other one is an industrial project manager (Thales company).

Improvement can be done on the scope of the emblematic eco-design projects. Criticisms can be made on the projects selected because they do not fit the ISO/TR 14062:2002. They integrate no more than three environmental themes (often one), and they are not integrated from the beginning of the project. They represent some of the best-in-class projects integrating environment in this ecosystem.

## 5 CONCLUSION

The study shows that the improvement that must be done to reduce environmental impacts of systems is huge. Papers have been found on the barriers and drivers of eco-design integration in diverse domains, but few have been found in the defence domain. There is a real challenge to integrate eco-design in this domain. We have deployed a method to identify these barriers and drivers in the context of complex system  development  involving  multiple  stakeholders  (project  owner  and  several  industrial  project managers). It has been highlighted that the design ecosystem of military systems can be represented as a socio-technical  system.  In  this  study,  it  is  intended  to  integrate  eco-design  within  each  elementary elements involved in this socio-technical system, which is a key to promote a successful and long-term integration  of  eco-design.  The  design  process  studied  is  structured  into  key  phases,  to  which  are associated  design  activities  and  interactions  with  industrialists  (applied  to  emblematic  eco-design projects). They make it easier to support and identify the failure modes for eco-design integration in the projects  according  to:  External  environment;  Financial  mean;  Maintenance;  Management-  project approach; Material; Method; Staff. These themes are used to assess the positive and negative forces to act  over  the  long-term  to  integrate  eco-design  in  defence  projects.  Strengths  must  be  capitalized,  and opportunities  must  be  taken.  Ignoring  the  environment  during  the  upstream  design  phases  introduces weaknesses and leads to threats during the life cycle. The coming work is to complete the diagnosis of

the French defence socio-technical system with a focus on the emblematic projects. It will be centred on design activities through a systematic study of tools, actors, processes, results, etc.

## REFERENCES

Ahn, Y. P., Pearce A. R., Wang Y. and Wang G. (2013), "Drivers and barriers of sustainable design and construction: The perception of  green  building  experience", International  Journal  of  Sustainable  Building  Technology  and Urban Development , Vol. 4 No. 1, pp. 35-45. http://doi.org/10.1080/2093761X.2012.759887

Bey,  N.,  Hauschild,  M.  Z.  and  McAloone,  T.  C.  (2013),  "Drivers  and  barriers  for  implementation  of environmental  strategies  in  manufacturing  companies", Manufacturing  Technology ,  Vol.  62,  pp.  43-46. 10.1016/j.cirp.2013.03.001

Bossle, M. B., de Barcellos, M. D., Vieira, L. M. and Sauvée, L. (2016), "The drivers for adoption of eco-innovation", Journal of Cleaner Production , Vol. 113, pp. 861-872. http://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2015.11.033

EEAS  (2021), EU  Concept  for  Environmental  Protection  and  Energy  Optimisation  for  EU-led  Military Operations and Missions , Council of the European Union, Brussels.

Gaziulusoy, A. I. and Brezet, H. (2015), "Design for system innovations and transitions: a conceptual framework integrating insights from sustainablity science and theories of system innovations and transitions", Journal of Cleaner Production , Vol. 108, pp. 558-568. http://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2015.06.066

French, M. J. (1985), Conceptual design for engineers , Springger-Verlag, London, http://doi.org/10.1007/978-3662-11364-6

Gürel, E. (2017), "SWOT analysis: a theorical review", The Journal of International Social Research , Vol. 10, pp. 994-1006, http://doi.org/10.17719/jisr.2017.1832

Hiatt,  J.,  Creasey,  T.J.  (2012), Change  management:  the  people  side  of  change , Proscri  Learning  center Publications, Colorado (USA).

Hollauer, C., Venkataraman, S. and Omer, M. (2015), "A model to describe use phase of socio-technical sphere of  product-service  systems", International  Conference  on  Engineering  Design  ICED15 ,  Politecnico  di Milano, Italy, July 2015.

IRIS (2021a), Ra pport d'étude n°15 - Intégration des enjeux climato-environnementaux par les forces armées , IRIS - Institut de relations internationales et stratégiques.

IRIS  (2021b), Rapport  d'étude  n°16  -  CEMC:  Climate  Change  Evaluation  Methodology  for  military  Camps , IRIS - Institut de relations internationales et stratégiques.

ISO (2002), ISO/TR 14062:2002 : Environmental management - Integrating environmental aspects into product design and development .

Liao, Z., Xu, C-k, Cheng, H and Dong, J. (2018), "What drives environmental innovation? A content analysis of listed companies in China", Journal of Cleaner Production , Vol. 198, pp. 1567-1573. http://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.07.156

Maisonneuve,  C.  (2022),  "Chapitre  13.  Opérations  d'armement  :  De  l'éco-conception  à  l'adaptation  au changement  climatique",  In:  Regaud,  N.  (Presses  de  Sciences  Po), La  guerre  chaude , pp.  207-220. http://doi.org/10.3917/scpo.regau.2022.01.0207

Michelin,  F.  and  Janin,  M.  (2018),  "Les  enjeux  de  l'éco-conception  pour  un  donneur  d'ordre  de  systèmes complexes", Congrès AVNIR, Lille, France, November 7 and 8, 2018.

Ministère des armées (2014), Demandes d'autorisation et d'exemption défense .  [online] IXARM. Available at: https://www.ixarm.com/fr/demandes-dautorisation-et-dexemption-defense (2022/10/28).

Ministère des armées (2019), Instruction n° 1618/ARM/CAB . Bulletin officiel des armées, France.

Ministère des armées (2022), Climate and defense strategy , France.

Mrozek, A. (2021),  "Eco-Design  and  its  Tools  -  Attempted  use  in  the  Military  Industry", Architecture,  Civil Engineering, Environment , Vol. 14, pp 81-88. http://doi.org/10.21307/acee-2021-024

NATO  (2021), NATO  Climate  Change  and  Security  Action  Plan .  [online]  NATO  -  North  Atlantic  Treaty Organization. Available at: https://www.nato.int/cps/en/natohq/official\_texts\_185174.htm (accessed 2022/11/26).

Regaud, N. (2021), Changement climatique, défense et sécurité : nouvelle dynamique internationale et enjeux pour la France (Brève stratégique n°21) , IRSEM - Institut de Recherche Stratégique de l'Ecole Militaire, France.

Saidani, M., Cluzel, F., Leroy, Y. and Auclaire, A. (2016), "Time-Efficient Eco-Innovation Workshop Process in Complex System Industries ", Design 2016, Dubrovnik, Croatia, May 2016. http://doi.org/10.1007/978-14471-3581-4

Sarewitz,  D.,  Thernstrom,  S.,  Alic,  J.  and  Doom,  T.  (2012), Energy innovation at  the  department  of  defence assessing the opportunities , Consortium for Science, Policy &amp; Outcomes, Clean Air Task Force.

Departement of Defence (2019), Smart Infrastructure Handbook , Australia.

Van Schaik,  L.,  Zandee,  D.,  von  Lossow,  T.,  Dekker,  B.,  van  der  Maas,  Z.  and  Halima,  A.  (2020), Military responses to climate change , Clingendael.

Yannou,  B.  and  Petiot,  J-F  (2011),  "A  View  of  Design  (and  JMD):  The  French  Perspective", Journal  of Mechanical design , Vol. 133 No. 5, pp.1-2. http://doi.org/10.1115/1.4004032