<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

## PRESENTATION

## Messrs. Shareholders:

In accordance with legal and statuory provisions, we have the pleasure to submit for your appreciation, the Patrimonial Balance-Account which shows the results of the Demonstrative National Fund for Communications, the Fiscal Council and Independent Auditing opinions and the present REPORT on the activities of "Telecomunicações Brasileiras, S.A. -TELEBRÁS", during the fiscal year of 1974.

## I - 'TELEBRÁS'

## 1. DEVELOPMENT

In november of 1974, the  'Telecomunicações Brasileiras S.A. - TELEBRÁS'-, completed ist second year of activities.

The first stage, initiated in november of 1972, was characterized by the integration of the companies services operating separately in the Country, aiming at providing for the unification of the National Telecommunications System.

By means of a series of legal provisions, Representative Companies (integrated poles) were indicated at each Unity of the Federation.       TELEBRÁS acquired shareholding participation in such companies, taking over the control of almost all of them. To the Representative Companies was given the responsibility of integrating the companies in their area of operation, aiming at the development of telecommunications throughout the Country.

The second stage, initiated in 1974, had as its objective, the improvement of the organization of TELEBRÁS in order that it can concentrate itself, efficiently, on its permanent and institutional mission of promoting the improvement of telecommunications public services through planning. coordination, integration and assistance to the Group Companies from a business point of view.

objectives. The main ones were:

- a. The creation of the Coordination Board of Directors and its later sformation into a -tran Vice-Presidency, aiming at establishing an adequate model for   activities of the coordination in the field of planning and control  to assure an uniform and global , treatment to the aboration of the Group el plans and projects, as well as its execution.
- b. The transformation f the Company's Board of o Directors Management into Operation Board of Directors, aiming at equipping TEL EBRÁS with an organ capable of giving subsidiaries and associated companies the necessa ry support at operational areas, within the concept of what constitutes the operation, the activity-means of these companies. Te need for this transformation h is even more evident, when one takes into consideration the expansion rhythm foreseen for the II PND period .

Consonant with the position adopted, in 1974 some organizational changes were made to equip TELEBRÁS with a structure more adequate to the philosophy of its performance and to the expansion of its

With t he changes adopted, a better coordination of the institutionalized activities was attained by t approving of the he TELEBRÁS General Regulations at the end of , the fiscal year

<!-- image -->

## 2.         ACTIVITIES COORDINATION

The experience showed to be convenient the institutionalization of an integrated system for planning and control.

Within this philosophy, the objectives for the Group Companies were defined, thus taking initiation the implantation of the administration by objectives. Consequently, the following instruments were created:

- · Information System - the basis for the elaboration and re-feeding of the planning process, the source of the control system.
- · Planning System - aiming at consolidating the sectorial plans of each Unity, thus permitting, in turn, the formulation and feasibility of a planning system at a National level.
- · Control System - consisting of activites of a global evaluation of the performance and accomplishment of the guide lines, objectives, and basic norms  tablisned for the Group. es

<!-- image -->

## 3.         OPERATIONS

## 3.1 - Operational Structure

Aiming at dynamizing the operational area, encouragement was given to the creation of Operational Directories for the Group companies.

## 3.2 - Companies Integration

With the majority of the Polo-Companies already integrated to the TELEBRÁS Group, the following step taken. starting from 1974, was characterized by the coordination and support given to the subsidiary companies for the integration of the remaining concessionaires, within each State.

In 1974, a total of 213 companies were integrated to the TELEBRÁS Group, of which 107 by affiliation; 72 by administration, and 34 by means of shareholding participation (see Table).

## 3.3 - Quality of Services

One of the prime goals in this area, is related to the quality of services rendered to the usuary. In this respect, emphasis was given to a program of evaluation of the quality of long-distance service.

Parallelly, indicators for operational performances of telephone services were established aiming at setting up indexes to be reached by the Group Companies, in order to improve the quality of the System's performance.

## 3.4 - Operational Support

In this area, TELEBRÁS developed extensive activities, either through employees of ist own personnel staff, or by requesting the help of personnel from other subsidiaries, thus providing for an intensive interchange of know-how.

## 4.         ENGINEERING

## ing 4.1 - Plann

Under the orientation and supervision of TELEBRÁS, the elaboration of a Planning Directory for all the other Units of the Federation followed ist course, some already completed, and others in phase of conclusion. As the Units were no programs were being carried out, TELEBRÁS, directly, elaborated plans for the prompt execution, so that to provide for the most immediate needs.

urthermore, and as subsidies for the F foregoing plans, the following ones were developed:

tudies for telephone demand at short and .S medium terms, at State level;

- Telephone National Numerical Plan. .
- International Direct Dialing (DDI); .

## 4.2- Expansion

During the course of 1974, Letters of Intent were signed with the Sector Industries for the acquisition, by the companies of the TELEBRÁS Group. of commutting equipment in a total of 300 thousand terminals.

By the subsidiaries and associated companies, 550 thousand terminals were contracted,

based on Letters of Intent, previously signed by TELEBRÂS.

## 4.3 - Technical Support

Technical assistance dered to the was ren subsidiaries and associated companies in the form of participation for the elaboration of projects, specification of equipment, and the drawing up of contracts for the supply of equipment for the commutting, transmission, intra-structure, nets, and power sectors, among others.

evaluation and formulation of strategy, aiming at the  utilization of the works developed at UNICAMP for industrialization, in the Country, of the MUX PCM equipment.

c)  Encouragement to National Industry in this field, studies were made on technical, economical and institutional aspects involved not only in the establishment of strategy for the utilization of National components and material in the market, generated by the expansion of the National Telecommunications System, but also, for the association of companies of genuine National capital.

## d)  Projects

In this field, during the fiscal year TELEBRÁS continued with the policy of using university entities for the development of projects of interest, having invested the amount of 30 million cruzeiros for

- .     the execution of the following projects:

.   Complementary Antennas and Components (CETUC/PUC)

- .   Radio Propagation Studies (ITA-MAER)
- .   Commutting Systems (FDTE/USP)
- .   Rural Telephony (FDTE/USP)
- .   Sampling Communication Systems (UNICAMP)
- .   Communications Systems (CETUC/PUC)
- .  tudies of new programs and projects: s

Electronic and Device Program (multi institutional)

- .   Project of Optical Fibers (UNICAMP)
- .   Project of Magnectic Devices (UFPe)

## 4.4 - Normalization

Starling from the second quarter of the year of 1974, great emphasis was given to the elaboration of normative documents for the TELEBRÁS Group, to point out the works covering projects of pattern-buildings, net general policies, acceptance of general norms, standardization of public telephones, and studies on moving telephony.

## 4.5 - Research and Development

a)  National Technology

Aside from setting up the works results under development, it was attempted to cover, within the government policy, set forth by the Basic Plan of Scientific and Technological Development, all the range of activities heading to the improvement of the Scientific and Technological System of the Telecommunications Sector, and to the progressive reduction of foreign technological dependance. Thus, while in 1973, the main effort was spared in the area of similar universities and institutions, in 1974, of addition, studies were carried out aiming at the establishment of a central technologial laboratory for the TELEBRÁS Group, and managements were initiated by the National industry, not only in the sense of fomenting it, but also to create basic conditions to transfer to it, the results of the Research and Development programs.

## b) Transfer of Technology

The transfer of developed technology and associated  know-how to final products, for industries of national capital, was acquired by means of utilization of the results of Planning and Development projects contracted by TELEBRÁS, mainly the following.

Carrying out of studies aiming at industrialization of UHF and SHF antennas developed at CETUC/PUC;

- .   Ground Telecommunications Station via Satelite.

## 5. HUMAN RESOURCES

5. 1 - Guide Lines for Human Resources During the fiscal year of 1974, the 'GUIDE LINES FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF HUMAN RESOURCES' were drawn up, based on the harmonious and integrated equation of the application and development of personnel, necessary to the TELEBRAS Group. Thus, the objectives and guide lines to be followed were established, through a Sectorial System of Human Resources, consisting of a central organ at TELEBRAS, and execution organs at the subsidiaries and associated companies.

## 5.2 - Training

a) In the Country

Training activities were developed through different modalities, in a coherent form with the priority treatment which has been given since the creation of TELEBRAS, reaching   of the existing 27% permanent staff or, in other words, 18.967 employees. The distribution, by regions and specializations, is the following:

## AREA OF ACTIVITIES

|           | SPECIALIZATIONS        | SPECIALIZATIONS   | SPECIALIZATIONS     | SPECIALIZATIONS   |        |
|-----------|------------------------|-------------------|---------------------|-------------------|--------|
| REGIONS   | Technical/ Operational | Administrative    | Economic/ Financial | Others            | TOTAL  |
| North     | 44                     | 67                | 19                  | 22                | 152    |
| Northeast | 524                    | 171               | 50                  | 51                | 796    |
| Southeast | 6.436                  | 6.763             | 98                  | 275               | 13.572 |
| South     | 1.944                  | 1.133             | 46                  | 1.021             | 4.144  |
| C.West    | 136                    | 137               | 27                  | 3                 | 303    |
| TOTALS    | 9.084                  | 7.271             | 240                 | 1.372             | 18.967 |

With the technical assistance from the 5.4 -  roup Work-Force G International Telecommunications Union (UIT) and the                                                            The active work-for participation of the United Nations Development Program,                                  Group showed the following position on the TELEBRÁS/PNUD/UIT Project was  sgtarted, aiming                                     December 31, 1974: the TELEBRAS/PNUD/UIT  Project was started. aiming sector. The implantation of a Project Management became effective, experts were selected, and 5 specific Task Groups were created, placed at the Group Companies, to orientate the training activities in the traffic, nets, commutting. and transmission areas.                                                          Number of employees

## b) Abroad

Number of employees/1 .000 telephones                      28,7

Aiming to transfer and disseminate up-todate techniques for the telecommunications sector, 48 employees of the Group undertook courses or attended special training abroad.

| I T E M                               | 1974             |
|---------------------------------------|------------------|
|                                       | Number of 68.992 |
| Number of employees/1 .000 telephones |                  |

## 5.5 - Social Security

During the year, studies were carried out 5.3 - Incentive to Professional Formation aiming at a global plan of social security for the With the objective to improve teaching at Group Companies , in addition to the benefits granted by Social Welfare.

## 5.6 -Unification of the Date for Salary Readjustment

y the initiative and coordination of B

TELEBRÁS, readjustments among subsidiaries and associates companies, CNPS, FENATTEL and Unions, the unification of the dates for salary readjustment for employees of the Group Companies was set up, starting from 1975. Several other companies, not yet linked to the Group, approved the measure taken which will propriciate a considerable simplification in the processing of future readjustments, besides facilitating a great deal tile future rate studies.

the areas of interest for telecommunications, 11 schools at a superior level and 4 schools and centers of secondary teaching received financial support from TELEBRÁS, in the amount of   3 million cruzeiros.

## 6. ECONOMY AND FINANCE

The Corporation authorized capital is thatrease in the net patrimony, are: inc of Cr$ 10.000.000.000,00 (ten billion cruzeiros). During the fiscal year of 1974, the Company raised ist integrated capital from Cr$ 3.606.426.640,00 to Cr$ 5.001.809.727,00.

- 6.1 - Patrimonial Aspects
- .   Bonus Received............................................. 7%

| . National Fund of Telecommunications                                                               | 70%                                                           |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|
| . Deposits on the Union for/Convertion into                                                         | Shares.................................................... 9% |
| . Dividends Received by the Union Participation.................................................... | 8%                                                            |
| . Bonus                                                                                             |                                                               |

om the sources at the disposal of Fr TELEBR ÁS, at the end of the fiscal year, 89,6% were from their own resources, and 10,4 % from reso

1974, the net patrimony On December 31, of the Company   was that of   Cr$ 5.294.839,00. The expansion   which occurred during the fiscal year of  1974, was that of Cr$ 1.171.466.00, corresponding, in nominal values, of a growth of the order of 28%. The main  accounts representing the urces of third parties.

## STATEMENT ON THE SOURCE AND APPLICATION OF THE RESOURCES

## DURING FISCAL YEAR OF 1974

- a)      Realized Invnts (                           ) estme

b)      Additionals to Real-estate

| SOURCE OF RESOU RCES                                                                     | Thousand Cr$   |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------|
| a) Credits from the Union for/Increase of Capital . National Fund for Telecommunications | 818.686        |
| . Deposits for/ConvertionShares into APPLICATION OF RESOURCES                            | 110.000        |
| . Financial Revenue                                                                      | 6.066          |
| . Self-financing                                                                         | 8.462          |
| . Dividends Received by Union Participation (*)                                          | 98.342         |
| b) Bonus Received (**)                                                                   | 78.276         |
| c) Increase requirable on Long Term                                                      | 45.891         |
| d) Resources Obtained by Own Operations . Net Profit                                     | 51.049         |
| . Depreciation                                                                           | 871            |
| TOTAL FROM SOURCES                                                                       | 1.217.643      |
| TOTAL OF APPLICATIONS VARIATION OF THE NET CIRCULATING SITUATION                         | 1.166.293      |

- (*) Dividens from previous fiscal years credited to the Union, received by TELEBRÁS, by way of investment for increase in Social Capital
- (* *) Bonus received as results of shares participation:

<!-- image -->

## 6.2 - Economical Aspects

a) National Fund for Telecommunication (FNT)

The collection of the FNT during the fiscal year of 1974 (excluding the portion collected by EMBRATEL referred to 1973), was that of Cr$ 1.057.659 thousand, representing, in nominal values, an increase of   33%.

| RETROSPECT OF   | COLLECTION             | FROM FNT      |
|-----------------|------------------------|---------------|
| YEAR            | COLLECTED Thousand Cr$ | CORRECTED * * |
| 1966*           | 2.816                  | 13.517        |
| 7               | 33.479                 | 125.546       |
| 8               | 83.329                 | 251.559       |
| 9               | 150.654                | 376.635       |
| 70              | 174.944                | 365.100       |
|                 | 1 260.836              | 451.990       |
| 2               | 426.188                | 631.390       |
| 3               | 796.738                | 1.025.293     |
| 4               | 1.057.659              | 1.057.659     |
| TOTAL           | 2.986.643              | 4.298.689     |

- ( *  ) As of may
- (* *) Implicit inflator: General Price Index, Internal Disponibility.

| FNT - REGION   | VALUES BY REGION COL ECTED   | VALUES BY REGION COL ECTED   | 1974 APPLIED   | 1974 APPLIED   |
|----------------|------------------------------|------------------------------|----------------|----------------|
| FNT - REGION   | Thousand Cr$                 | %                            | Thousand Cr$   | %              |
| North          | 25.350                       | 2,40                         | 102.648        | 11,49          |
| Northeast      | 85.710                       | 8,10                         | 349.809        | 39.17          |
| Southeast      | 756.887                      | 71,57                        | 147.940        | 16,56          |
| South          | 126.952                      | 12,00                        | 168.049        | 18,82          |
| C. West        | 62.760                       | 5,93                         | 124.650        | 13.96          |
| TOTAL          | 1.057.659                    |                              | 100            |                |

TOTAL             1.057.659      100         893.096         10

From the total collected, in 1974, the surtariffs for "national services" contributed with 88% and those for "international services" with 12%.

Comparatively, should we verify the "Table of Statement of Investments of TELEBRÁS in the Companies during 1974": Item 6.1  'e'  - Financial Immobilizations" in relation to what was presented above, we can immediately see that the regions which relatively contributed less to the collected total are the ones that received larger investments from TELEBRÁS, this to show the Company's orientation to speed-up telecommunications development at the the most needy areas.

## 6.3 - Financial Aspects

- •

Net Circulating Situation The net circulating area of TELEBRÁS, considering the current active values and the current liabilies, were as follows:

1973 Cr$

95.670.006

1974 Cr$

147.020.246

%

<!-- image -->

VARIATION

-

Cr$

51.350.240

54

The increase verified shows an accentuated improvement in the financial situation of the Company, whose index of current liquidation progressed from 2,10 on december 31, 1973 to 3,88 on december 31, 1974.

## 7. INTERNAL ADMINISTRATION

## 7.1 - Personnel

a) Personnel Staff By the end of the fiscal year, the Company personnel staff had reached a total of 496 employees. The percentage of personnel at a superior level is that of  48,11%  d the average age ranging from an 30   to  35   years.

## b) Health Assistance

Special emphassis was given to the health program,  which was intensified during the fiscal year, due to the organization of a medical survey of all Company employees.

The medical-hospital and odontholo gical assistance services, under the form of a shared-cost, met with the needs of   9.614 employees and their dependants, including vaccination and laboratory tests.

## c) Adaptness and Fixation of Personnel

With the objective to grant employees a complex of favorable conditions to their adaptness and fixation at the Federal Capital, the Company, through   TELESTAR, gave its support to recreation facilities and sport activities; it further propiciated housing financing help for 60 employees; authorized 72  financings for the acquisition of vehicles, and propiciated group life  insurance for 454 of their employees.

7.2 - Construction   of    Headquarters During the fiscal year, the technical projects for the construction of   the Company's headquarters,  previously suspended by convenience of the Company's financial situation, were developed and stimulated, in order to accomodate the increasing services need. The building works of   TELEBRÁS will start during the first semester of 1975, at the ground acquired for this speciffic purpose, which is located at the "Setor de Autarquias Sul", in Brasilia.

## 8. OTHER ACTIVITIES

8.1 - III Brazilian Congress of Telecommunications

Sponsored by TELEBRÁS, it was held in Brasilia, in july of 1974, the III CBTEL, attended by 496 participants, representatives of subsidiary companies, equipment industries, and organs of Public and Private Administration.

The Congress - opened by His

Excellency the Minister of State for Communications reviewed the works and indications of major importance for National telecommunications and approved 123 recommendations.

## II - TELEBRÁS GROUP

## 1.   COMPOSITION

The TELEBRÁS Group is composed of 71 companies, thereby constituting its 'holding'-entity, with 25 subsidiaries and 45 associated companies. TELEBRÁS shareholding participation at those companies, in the majority of the cases by capitalization of its realized investments for the accomplishment of services expansion plans, at the end of the fiscal year was that of Cr$ 5.686.452.000,00. This amount represents 96% of its real assets, and shows the full attainment of its social objectives. The Table below indicates the distribution of such investments.

## STATMENT ON CAPITAL PARTICIPATION OF TELEBRÁS DECEMBER

| SUBSIDIARIES       |                | SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL   | SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL   | SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL     | SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL     | SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL   | SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL   |
|--------------------|----------------|----------------------|----------------------|------------------------|------------------------|----------------------|----------------------|
| &                  | AUTHORIZED     | COMMON               | PREFERRED            | TELEBRÁS SHARES COMMON | TELEBRÁS SHARES COMMON | PREFERRED            | PREFERRED            |
| ASSOCIATED         | CAPITAL        | SHARES               | SHARES               | Cr$                    | %                      | Cr$                  | %                    |
| COMPANIES          |                |                      |                      |                        |                        |                      |                      |
| TOTAL NORTH REG.   | 340.000.000    | 143.988.677          | 13.132.580           | 81.121.000             | 56,33                  | -                    | -                    |
| TELERON            | 10.000.000     | 5.000.000            | -                    | 3.500.000              | 70,00                  | -                    | -                    |
| TELEACRE           | 10.000.000     | 5.260.000            | -                    | 3.974.000              | 75,55                  | -                    | -                    |
| TELAMAZON          | 150.000.000    | 56.695.371           | 437.475              | 30.000.000             | 52,91                  | -                    | -                    |
| TELAIMA            | 10.000.000     | 6.654.416            | -                    | 4.861.000              | 73,05                  | -                    | -                    |
| TELEPARÁ           | 150.000.000    | 67.254.240           | 12.595.105           | 35.786.000             | 53,21                  | -                    | -                    |
| TELEAMAPÁ          | 10.000.000     | 3.124.650            | 100.000              | 3.000.000              | 96,01                  | -                    | -                    |
| TOTAL NORTHEAST    | 2.225.000.000  | 786.501.680          | 178.654.504          | 550.512.229            | 69,99                  | 431.616              | -                    |
| TELMA              | 100.000.000    | 31.846.498           | 3.614.060            | 24.766.861             | 77,76                  | -                    | -                    |
| TELEPISA           | 75.000.000     | 48.628.172           | 15.537.524           | 39.147.242             | 80,50                  | -                    | -                    |
| TELECEARÁ          | 500.000.000    | 140.600.358          | 49.076.888           | 69.529.911             | 49,45                  | -                    | -                    |
| TELERN             | 150.000.000    | 59.651.135           | 3.791.880            | 35.537.270             | 59,58                  | -                    | -                    |
| TELPA              | 250.000.000    | 70.223.363           | 18.108.358           | 65.090.519             | 92,69                  | 431.616              | -                    |
| TELPE              | 500.000.000    | 166.509.156          | 68.784.543           | 92.750.000             | 55,70                  | -                    | -                    |
| TELASA             | 100.000.000    | 71.116.023           | 16.091.791           | 61.931.808             | 87,08                  | -                    | -                    |
| TELERGIPE          | 50.000.000     | 28.251.648           | 820.799              | 24.147.008             | 85,47                  | -                    | -                    |
| TELEBAHIA          | 500.000.000    | 169.675.327          | 2.828.661            | 137.611.610            | 81,10                  | -                    | -                    |
| TOTAL SOUTHEAST    | 10.400.000.000 | 9.271.931.541        | 2.370.850.472        | 4.217.387.856          | 45,48                  | 102.189.093          | 4,31                 |
| TELEMIG            | -              | 351.718.046          | 162.281.954          | 194.446.214            | 55,28                  | 2.519.501            | 1,55                 |
| TELEST             | 400.000.000    | 112.998.832          | 87.001.168           | 94.650.318             | 83,76                  | 57.510.666           | 66,10                |
| C T B              | 5.000.000.000  | 3.586.859.106        | 803.839.730          | 1.410.335.517          | 39,31                  | 42.092.154           | 5,23                 |
| EMBRATEL           | -              | 2.000.000.000        | -                    | 1.084.408.500          | 54,22                  | -                    | -                    |
| TELESP             | 5.000.000.000  | 3.220.355.557        | 1.317.727.620        | 1.433.547.307          | 44,51                  | 66.772               | -                    |
| TOTAL SOUTH REG.   | 1.100.000.000  | 362.236.368          | 90.843.115           | 162.340.419            | 44,81                  | -                    | -                    |
| TELEPAR            | 500.000.000    | 189.991.517          | 68.619.598           | 44.708.103             | 23,53                  | -                    | -                    |
| TELESP             | 600.000.000    | 172.244.851          | 22.223.517           | 116.875.452            | 67,85                  | -                    | -                    |
| C R T              | -              | -                    | -                    | 756.864                | -                      | -                    | -                    |
| TOTAL CENTRAL WEST | 750.000.000    | 405.304.175          | 67.797.950           | 220.225.722            | 54,33                  | 8.315.576            | 12,26                |
| TELEMAT            | 100.000.000    | 26.265.023           | 9.875.533            | 22.643.508             | 86,21                  | -                    | -                    |
| TELEGOIÁS          | 150.000.000    | 116.583.358          | 2.378.211            | 53.314.673             | 45,73                  | -                    | -                    |
| TELEBRASÍLIA       | 500.000.000    | 262.455.794          | 55.544.206           | 144.267.541            | 54,97                  | 8.315.576            | 14,97                |
| T O T A L          | 14.815.000.000 | 10.969.962.441       | 2.721.278.621        | 5.231.587.226          | 47,69                  | 110.936.285          | 4,07                 |

## AND SHAREHOLDING IN GROUP COMPANIES ON OF 1974

EM Cr$ 1,00

|                      | INTEGRATED CAPITAL   | INTEGRATED CAPITAL   | INTEGRATED CAPITAL     | INTEGRATED CAPITAL     | INTEGRATED CAPITAL   | INTEGRATED CAPITAL   |              |
|----------------------|----------------------|----------------------|------------------------|------------------------|----------------------|----------------------|--------------|
| UNSUBSCRIBED CAPITAL | COMMON               | PREFERRED            | COMMON TELEBRÁS SHARES | COMMON TELEBRÁS SHARES | PREFERRED            | PREFERRED            | UNINTEGRATED |
|                      | SHARES               | SHARES               | Cr$                    | %                      | Cr$                  | %                    | CAPITAL      |
| 182.878.743          | 130.104.877          | 13.132.580           | 81.121.000             | 62,35                  | -                    | -                    | 13.883.800   |
| 5.000.000            | 4.999.900            | -                    | 3.500.000              | 70,00                  | -                    | -                    | 100          |
| 4.740.000            | 4.399.400            | -                    | 3.974.000              | 90,33                  | -                    | -                    | 860.600      |
| 92.867.154           | 56.695.371           | 437.475              | 30.000.000             | 52,91                  | -                    | -                    | -            |
| 3.345.584            | 6.631.316            | -                    | 4.861.000              | 73,30                  | -                    | -                    | 23.100       |
| 70.150.655           | 54.254.240           | 12.595.105           | 35.786.000             | 65,95                  | -                    | -                    | 13.000.000   |
| 6.775.350            | 3.124.650            | 100.000              | 3.000.000              | 96,01                  | -                    | -                    | -            |
| 1.259.843.816        | 748.649.075          | 178.654.119          | 513.734.168            | 68,62                  | 431.616              | -                    | 37.852.990   |
| 64.539.442           | 31.846.498           | 3.614.060            | 24.766.861             | 77,76                  | -                    | -                    | -            |
| 10.834.304           | 44.850.111           | 15.537.139           | 35.369.181             | 78,86                  | -                    | -                    | 3.778.446    |
| 310.322.754          | 140.600.358          | 49.076.888           | 69.529.911             | 49,45                  | -                    | -                    | -            |
| 86.556.985           | 59.650.385           | 3.791.880            | 35.537.270             | 59,58                  | -                    | -                    | 750          |
| 161.668.279          | 70.223.363           | 18.108.358           | 65.090.519             | 92,69                  | 431.616              | -                    | -            |
| 264.706.301          | 132.441.862          | 68.784.543           | 59.750.000             | 45,11                  | -                    | -                    | 34.067.294   |
| 12.792.186           | 71.116.023           | 16.091.791           | 61.931.808             | 87,08                  | -                    | -                    | -            |
| 20.927.553           | 28.245.148           | 820.799              | 24.147.008             | 85,49                  | -                    | -                    | 6.500        |
| 327.496.012          | 169.675.327          | 2.828.661            | 137.611.610            | 81,10                  | -                    | -                    | -            |
| 1.271.217.987        | 9.271.931.541        | 2.370.850.472        | 4.217.387.856          | 45,48                  | 102.189.093          | 4,31                 | -            |
| -                    | 351.718.046          | 162.281.954          | 194.446.214            | 55,29                  | 2.519.501            | 1,55                 | -            |
| 200.000.000          | 112.998.832          | 87.001.168           | 94.650.318             | 83,76                  | 57.510.666           | 66,10                | -            |
| 609.301.164          | 3.586.859.106        | 803.839.730          | 1.410.335.517          | 39,31                  | 42.092.154           | 5,23                 | -            |
| -                    | 2.000.000.000        | -                    | 1.084.408.500          | 54,22                  | -                    | -                    | -            |
| 461.916.823          | 3.220.355.557        | 1.317.727.620        | 1.433.547.307          | 44,51                  | 66.772               | -                    | -            |
| 646.920.517          | 362.236.368          | 90.843.115           | 162.340.419            | 44,81                  | -                    | -                    | -            |
| 241.388.885          | 189.991.517          | 68.619.598           | 44.708.103             | 23,53                  | -                    | -                    | -            |
| 405.531.632          | 172.244.851          | 22.223.517           | 116.875.452            | 67,85                  | -                    | -                    | -            |
| -                    | -                    | -                    | 756.864                | -                      | -                    | -                    | -            |
| 276.897.875          | 390.981.990          | 67.713.580           | 220.225.722            | 56,32                  | 8.315.576            | 12,28                | 14.406.555   |
| 63.859.444           | 26.265.023           | 9.871.163            | 22.643.508             | 86,21                  | -                    | -                    | 4.370        |
| 31.038.431           | 102.261.173          | 2.298.211            | 53.314.673             | 52,13                  | -                    | -                    | 14.402.185   |
| 182.000.000          | 262.455.794          | 55.544.206           | 144.267.541            | 54,97                  | 8.315.576            | 14,97                | -            |
| 3.637.758.938        | 10.903.903.851       | 2.721.193.866        | 5.194.809.165          | 47,64                  | 110.936.285          | 4,07                 | 66.143.345   |

## 2.   SERVICES DEVELOPMENT

In spite of the difficulties arised from the disturbed economical panorama of the world, Brazilian telecommunications  presented an impressive development, as it can be observed from the data given below.

## 2.1 - General Data

a) Urban Telephone Services With an increase of 13% a year in the number of terminal installed, and an increase of 24% in the number of telephones in operation, service's development during 1974, at the different Units of the Federation, was as follows:

| COMPANY      | TERMINALS INSTALLED   | TERMINALS INSTALLED   | TERMINALS INSTALLED   | TELEPHONES ON SERVICE   | TELEPHONES ON SERVICE   | TELEPHONES ON SERVICE   | TELEPHONES ON SERVICE   | TELEPHONES ON SERVICE   | TELEPHONES ON SERVICE   |
|--------------|-----------------------|-----------------------|-----------------------|-------------------------|-------------------------|-------------------------|-------------------------|-------------------------|-------------------------|
| COMPANY      | 31.12.73              | 31.12.74              | %                     | 31.12.73                | 31.12.74                | %                       | 31.12.73                | 31.12.74                | %                       |
| TELERON      | 700                   | 1.402                 | 100                   | 700                     | 1.402                   | 100                     | 950                     | 1.900                   | 100                     |
| TELEACRE     | 1.099                 | 1.413                 | 29                    | 1.099                   | 1.413                   | 29                      | 1.200                   | 1.590                   | 33                      |
| TELEAMAZON   | 8.320                 | 8.320                 | 0                     | 7.279                   | 7.667                   | 5                       | 9.475                   | 11.687                  | 23                      |
| TELAIMA      | 400                   | 500                   | 25                    | 400                     | 493                     | 23                      | 438                     | 557                     | 27                      |
| TELEPARÁ     | 23.710                | 23.710                | 0                     | 21.531                  | 22.058                  | 2                       | 25.099                  | 28.134                  | 12                      |
| TELEAMAPÁ    | 601                   | 610                   | 2                     | 601                     | 610                     | 2                       | 725                     | 725                     | 0                       |
| TELMA        | 4.160                 | 4.160                 | 0                     | 3.482                   | 3.846                   | 10                      | -                       | 5.312                   | **                      |
| TELEPISA     | 3.607                 | 5.430                 | 51                    | 3.570                   | 5.215                   | 46                      | 4.465                   | 6.816                   | 53                      |
| TELECEARÁ    | 31.061                | 35.744                | 15                    | 27.476                  | 32.911                  | 20                      | 34.048                  | 42.623                  | 25                      |
| TELERN       | 8.797                 | 11.012                | 25                    | 6.235                   | 10.818                  | 74                      | 7.663                   | 13.931                  | 82                      |
| TELPA        | 5.150                 | 9.604                 | 86                    | 4.089                   | 8.560                   | 109                     | 3.866                   | 10.163                  | 162                     |
| TELPE        | 37.700                | 43.150                | 14                    | 36.266                  | 42.811                  | 18                      | 40.436                  | 59.376                  | 47                      |
| TELASA       | 7.800                 | 9.147                 | 17                    | 7.210                   | 7.787                   | 8                       | 7.482                   | 10.044                  | 34                      |
| TELERGIPE    | 1.945                 | 1.995                 | 3                     | 1.937                   | 1.955                   | 1                       | 2.189                   | 2.641                   | 21                      |
| TELEBAHIA    | 24.075                | 27.467                | 14                    | 21.356                  | 24.572                  | 15                      | 29.924                  | 37.109                  | 24                      |
| TELEMIG      | 104.309               | 125.577               | 20                    | 87.868                  | 119.445                 | 36                      | 120.629                 | 159.368                 | 32                      |
| TELEST       | 13.694                | 16.161                | 18                    | 13.649                  | 15.799                  | 16                      | 19.981                  | 25.822                  | 29                      |
| C.T.B.       | 447.032               | 521.280               | 17                    | 404.477                 | 433.436                 | 7                       | 543.251                 | 599.522                 | 10                      |
| TELESP       | 648.849               | 709.675*              | 9                     | 581.697                 | 631.869*                | 9                       | 760.793                 | 1.001.176*              | 32*                     |
| TELEPAR      | 62.125                | 73.378                | 18                    | 60.144                  | 66.966                  | 11                      | 98.585                  | 107.951                 | 10                      |
| TELESC       | 15.331                | 20.043                | 31                    | 14.868                  | 19.565                  | 32                      | 21.390                  | 33.194                  | 55                      |
| C.R.T.       | 82.440                | 93.985                | 14                    | 75.284                  | 86.777                  | 15                      | 118.076                 | 133.682                 | 13                      |
| TELEMAT      | 4.530                 | 4.684                 | 3                     | 4.505                   | 4.529                   | 1                       | 6.123                   | 6.798                   | 11                      |
| TELEGOIÁS    | 20.478                | 22.690                | 11                    | 20.185                  | 21.968                  | 9                       | 22.831                  | 29.937                  | 31                      |
| TELEBRASÍLIA | 51.400                | 51.500                | 0                     | 34.264                  | 40.735                  | 19                      | 60.034                  | 70.905                  | 18                      |
| TOTAL        | 1.608.613             | 1.822.627             | 13                    | 1.439.944               | 1.613.207               | 12                      | 1.939.653               | 2.400.963               | 24                      |

* TELESP includes CTBC

** VALORES NÃO APRESENTADOS EM 73

## TOTAL CIRCUIT X KM

b) Long Distance Telephone Services

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

## c) Telex Services

During the last quarter of 1974, a moder Telex Service went into operation in the Country, the main data to read as follows:

## d) International Services

<!-- image -->

NOTE (1) Included in these totals, the channels of multiplexed voice for Telex, and Telegraphic services leased and 'hot-line'.

## 2.2. Economic Data

a)  Operational Results

The operational revenue during the fiscal year of 1974 mounted to Cr$ 4.391.156 thousand which, compared to those during the past fiscal year, present, in nominal values, an increase of 35%, a value which reflects an increase of utilization of services, since the rates had an increase of only 12%n the average, on the , i levels in force in 1973.

<!-- image -->

In relation to the previous fiscal year, the operational expenditures increased 60% in nominal values, reaching Cr$ 3.686.911 thousand. This can be explained by the introduction of the systematic acceleration of depreciation TELEBRÁS GROUP - 1975 (coefficient = 2,00), during the fiscal year of l974.                                            (Cr$ million) Should we take out from operational expenditures, the amount of the accelerated                                                   Explorat ion Revenue 4.391 depreciation. the nominal increase of expendi tures would reach around 42%.                                                          Exploration Expenditure 3.687 The operational profits in the fiscal year was Cr$ 704.254. thousand which n nominal values, , i was 26% inferior to that obtained in 197 3. Should the effects of the accelerated                                                            b)  Technical Immobilization depreciation be taken out, operational profit                                                The nominal growth  of  Net Immo bilization would grow, in nominal values, to                                                                (including investments for Works in Progress) approximately 18%                                                                                      was that of 40%. .

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

## 3.   PRIORITY   ACTION   N   THE AMAZON REGION

In order to comply with the Federal Government plans in that area, TELEBRÁS advanced steps to elaborate and put into effect, emmergency plans for the State of Ãcre and the Territories of Rondônia, Roraima and Amapá where there are being instalalled 8.600 new terminals and re-handled 2.900 ones. At 27 localities in the interlands, there are being implanted long-distance services to cope with the emmergency regime referred to above, in order to have those localities integrated

13.000 million cruzeiros .

<!-- image -->

## TELECOMUNICAÇÕES BRASILEIRAS S/A - TELEBRÁS

C.G.C.M.F. Nº 00336701/001

JOINT-ECONOMIC CORPORATION LINKED TO THE MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS

## BALANCE SHEETS - DECEMBER 31, 1974

TELECOMUNICAÇÕES BRASILEIRAS S/A - TELEBRÁS C.G.C.M.F. Nº 00336701/001 JOINT-ECONOMIC CORPORATION LINKED TO THE MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS BALANCE SHEETS - DECEMBER 31, 1974

## A S S E T S

## L I A B I L I T I E S

| RETAINED: NET PATRIMONY:                   | RETAINED: NET PATRIMONY:              | RETAINED: NET PATRIMONY:              | RETAINED: NET PATRIMONY:              | RETAINED: NET PATRIMONY:                                                     | RETAINED: NET PATRIMONY:              | RETAINED: NET PATRIMONY:              |
|--------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|
| TECHNICAL RETENTIONS CAPITAL (NOTE 3)      | TECHNICAL RETENTIONS CAPITAL (NOTE 3) | TECHNICAL RETENTIONS CAPITAL (NOTE 3) | TECHNICAL RETENTIONS CAPITAL (NOTE 3) | TECHNICAL RETENTIONS CAPITAL (NOTE 3)                                        | TECHNICAL RETENTIONS CAPITAL (NOTE 3) | TECHNICAL RETENTIONS CAPITAL (NOTE 3) |
| BUILDINGS AND LAND                         | 15.305.634                            |                                       |                                       | AUTHORIZED - 10.000.000.000 OF SHARES CR$ 1 EACH                             |                                       |                                       |
| FURNITURE, FIXTURES & OFFICE EQUIPMENT     | 5.158.358                             |                                       |                                       | SUBSCRIBED:                                                                  |                                       |                                       |
| VEHICLES, INSTALLATIONS & OTHER PROPERTIES | 1.494.246                             |                                       |                                       | 4.999.200.623 Common Shares CR$                                              | 4.999.200.623                         |                                       |
| FURNITURE & EQUIPMENT - PNUD PROJECT       | 134.348                               |                                       |                                       | 2.609.104 Prefered Shares                                                    | 2.609.104 CR$                         | 5.001.809.727                         |
| WORKS IN PROGRESS                          | 1.639.988                             |                                       |                                       |                                                                              |                                       |                                       |
| ORIGINAL VALUE PLUS MONETARY CORRECTION    | 23.732.754                            |                                       |                                       | RESERVES FOR INCREASE IN CAPITAL:                                            |                                       |                                       |
| LESS: ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION (NOTE 1.b)  | (1.334.073)CR$                        | 22.398.681                            |                                       | National Telecommunications Fund (Note 1.a)                                  | 70.308.659                            |                                       |
|                                            |                                       |                                       |                                       | Union's Deposits for Convertion into Shares                                  | 122.870.883                           |                                       |
| FINANCING RETENTIONS (NOTE 2):             |                                       |                                       |                                       | Bonus Shares                                                                 | 44.199.215                            |                                       |
| STOCK (LESS CR$ 36.788.061 OF UNINTEGRATED |                                       |                                       |                                       | Monetary Correction                                                          | 167.387                               | 237.546.144                           |
| SUBSCRIPTIONS)                             | 5.543.863.199                         |                                       |                                       | LEGAL RESERVE                                                                |                                       | 6.843.492                             |
|                                            |                                       |                                       |                                       | RETAINED EARNINGS                                                            |                                       | 48.639.658                            |
| INVESTMENTS WITH RESOURCES FROM:           |                                       |                                       |                                       |                                                                              |                                       | 5.294.839.021                         |
| NATIONAL INTEGRATION PLAN                  | 4.900.000                             |                                       |                                       | SHORT TERM NOTES PAYABLE:                                                    |                                       |                                       |
| NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS FUND           | 275.556.285                           |                                       |                                       | SUPPLIERS AND OTHER PAYABLE ACCOUNTS                                         | 5.271.731                             |                                       |
| ORDINARIES FROM THE UNION                  | 37.985.893                            |                                       |                                       | SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES                                                         | 45.743.503                            | 51.015.234                            |
| OWN RESOURCES                              | 24.146.342                            | 5.686.451.719                         |                                       |                                                                              |                                       |                                       |
|                                            |                                       |                                       |                                       | NOTES PAYABLE:                                                               |                                       |                                       |
| AVAILABLE:                                 |                                       |                                       |                                       | SUBSIDIARY COMPANY: Empresa Brasileira de Telecomu-                          |                                       |                                       |
| CASH AND BANKS                             | 89.228.188                            |                                       |                                       | nicações S/A-EMBRATEL                                                        |                                       | 561.031.625                           |
| BANK INVESTMENT ACCOUNT OF THE NATIONAL    |                                       |                                       |                                       |                                                                              |                                       |                                       |
| TELECOMMUNICATIONS FUND                    | 42.174.858                            |                                       |                                       | COMPENSATION:                                                                |                                       |                                       |
| TO OPEN MARKET                             | 15.356.566                            | 146.759.612                           | TITLES LINKED                         | WORK CONTRACTS AND RESEARCH CONTRACTS ENDORSEMENT AND SECURITY 2.834.015.908 | 59.809.377                            |                                       |
| CONVERTIBLE ON SHORT NOTICE:               | 49.349.078                            |                                       |                                       | INSURANCE CONTRACTS AND OTHERS 24.291.384                                    |                                       |                                       |
| ADVANCES TO SUBSIDIARIES OTHERS            | 1.926.790                             | 51.275.868                            |                                       |                                                                              | 2.918.116.669                         |                                       |
|                                            | CR$                                   | 5.906.885.880                         |                                       | LESS: ACTIVE COMPENSATION (2.918.116.669)CR$                                 |                                       | 5.906.885.880                         |
| (SEE NOTES)                                |                                       |                                       |                                       | (SEE NOTES)                                                                  |                                       |                                       |

| FINANCIAL STATEMENT PRESENTATION COVERING JANUARY 1 TO DECEMBER 31 1974   | FINANCIAL STATEMENT PRESENTATION COVERING JANUARY 1 TO DECEMBER 31 1974   | FINANCIAL STATEMENT PRESENTATION COVERING JANUARY 1 TO DECEMBER 31 1974   | FINANCIAL STATEMENT PRESENTATION COVERING JANUARY 1 TO DECEMBER 31 1974   | DEMONSTRATION OF THE NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS FUND FISCAL YEAR - DECEMBER 31, 1974       |     |               |     | (NOTE 1.A)    |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----|---------------|-----|---------------|
| REVENUE FROM:                                                             |                                                                           |                                                                           |                                                                           | BALANCE ON DECEMBER 31, 1973:                                                               |     |               | CR$ | 363.972.330   |
| NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS FUND                                          | CR$                                                                       | 105.765.924 7.815.137                                                     | 113.581.061                                                               | FISCAL YEAR COLLECTION (INCLUDING CR$ 1.931.456 REFE- RED TO 1973 AND COLLECTED BY EMBRATEL |     |               |     | 1.059.590.706 |
| OTHERS                                                                    |                                                                           |                                                                           |                                                                           |                                                                                             |     |               |     | 1.423.563.036 |
| EXPENSES:                                                                 |                                                                           |                                                                           |                                                                           | LESS: 10% TO PROVIDE FOR COST EXPENSES                                                      | CR$ | 105.765.924   |     |               |
| PERSONNEL                                                                 |                                                                           | 43.996.417                                                                |                                                                           | COLLECTION EXPENSES                                                                         |     | 1.372.600     |     |               |
| GENERAL                                                                   |                                                                           | 18.385.004                                                                | 63.381.421                                                                | TRANSFER FOR INCREASE IN CAPITAL ABSORPTION FOR EXCHANGE VARIATION OF CURRENT               |     | 1.112.349.883 |     |               |
| FISCAL YEAR EARNINGS:                                                     |                                                                           |                                                                           | 51.199.640                                                                | FOREIGN LOANS                                                                               |     | 113.684.205   |     |               |
| STATUORY APPROPRIATION:                                                   |                                                                           |                                                                           |                                                                           | ABSORPTION OF RESEARCH STUDIES AND PROJECT                                                  |     |               |     |               |
| LEGAL RESERVE                                                             |                                                                           |                                                                           | 2.559.982                                                                 | EXPENSES - PNUD                                                                             |     | 81.765        |     | 1.353.254.377 |
| RETAINED EARNINGS:                                                        |                                                                           |                                                                           | 48.639.658                                                                | BALANCE ON DECEMBER 31, 1974                                                                |     |               | CR$ | 70.308.659    |

## NOTES TO ACCOUNTABLE PRESENTATION

## 1.  Summary of the Significant Accounting Policies

## a.  National Telecommunications Fund

In accordance  with  Regulations  nº  482  of  November 9, 1972, drawn up by  the  Minister of  State  for  Communications,  starting November 9, 1972,  the  National Telecommunications Fund began to be administered by TELEBRÁS. This Regulations determines that the resources of the Fund be applied on investments providing for  the  expansion  and  improvement of telecommunications services  in  the  Country,  a  portion  of  10%  of  the  collected total to be reserved to meet  TELEBRÁS  cost  expenses.  Consequently,  the  Corporation  accounted  as  revenue,  the  value  corresponding  to  10%  of  the  collected  total  of that  Fund,  computing  the  remaining  90%  directly  on  reserve  for  increase  in  capital National Telecommunications Fund.

## b.  Depreciation

Depreciation is calculated by the linear method, at rates permitted by the Fiscal Authorities.

## 2.  Financing Retainment

TELEBRÁS participated in varied percentages on the following communications companies of the Country:

|                                                       | Accountable Value of investments   | Accountable Value of investments   | % Over Capi tal   | Participation on Net Patrimony   | Participation on Net Patrimony   |
|-------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------|------------------------------------|-------------------|----------------------------------|----------------------------------|
| Companhia Telefônica Brasileira - C.T.B.              | CR$                                | 1.512.340.042                      | 34                | CR$                              | 1.526.565.247                    |
| Telecomunicações de São Paulo S/A-TELESP              |                                    | 1.433.620.062                      | 32                |                                  | 1.551.605.671                    |
| Empresa Brasileira de Telecomunicações S/A - EMBRATEL |                                    | 1.084.408.500                      | 54                |                                  | 2.547.325.921                    |
| Telecomunicações de Minas Gerais S/A-TELEMIG          |                                    | 197.358.216                        | 39                |                                  | 208.592.831                      |
| Companhia de Telecomunicações de Brasília S/A-COTELB  |                                    | 153.909.080                        | 48                |                                  | 174.592.307                      |
| Telecomunicações do Espírito Santo S/A-TELEST         |                                    | 152.989.886                        | 76                |                                  | 164.836.421                      |
|                                                       | CR$                                | 4.534.625.886                      | CR$               |                                  | 6.173.518.398                    |
| Others                                                |                                    | 1.151.625.441                      |                   |                                  |                                  |
|                                                       | CR$                                | 5.686.251.327                      |                   |                                  |                                  |

JOSÉ ANTONIO DE ALENCASTRO E SILVA PRESIDENT

MASACHIKA IKAWA VICE-PRESIDENT

PAULO EDUARDO TASSANO SIGAUD ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL DIRECTOR

JOSÉ ORNELLAS DE SOUZA FILHO ADMINISTRATIVE DIRECTOR

## REPORT OF INDEPENDENT CERTIFIED ACCOUNTANTS

We  have  reviewed  the  Financial Balance of Telecomunicações Brasileiras S/A-TELEBRÁS, prepared  on  December  31,  1974,  as  well as their respective break downs and the National  Telecommunications  Fund,  corresponding  to  the  fiscal  year  ended  at  that  date.  The  review was made  in  accordance  with  auditing  norms  generally  accept  and,  consequently, included  reviews  of  the  accountable  records  and  other  auditing  procedures,  which we thought convenient under the circumstances.

The accountable breakdowns of Empresa Brasileira de Telecomunicações S/A-EMBRATEL, were reviewed   by  other Independent Certified  Accountants.   Our   opinion,   in   what  refers  to  investments of Empresa Brasileira de Telecomunicações S/A-EMBRATEL, in the amount of CR$............ 1.084.500, is based on the report  of  other  independent  Accountants,  as  mentioned  above,  the financial  balance  and  breakdowns,  and those of the National Telecommunications Fund, above mentioned,  represent  earnings  and  financial  position  of  Telecomunicações   Brasileiras   S/ATELEBRÁS,  on  December  31,  1974  as  well  as  the outcome of their corresponding during the fiscal    year   ended   at   that   time,   in   accordance   with   all   accounting   principles   generally accepted, which were uniformly applied in relation to the previous fiscal year. São Paulo, January 24, 1975.

ATHUR YOUNG CLARKSON, GORDON &amp; CO. CRC-SP 1884 GEMEC-RAI-72/036/RJ

CELSO RAIMONDI ACCOUNTANT CRC-SP 15907 GEMEC-RAI-72/036-1-FJ

The   investments   are   recorded   by   their   original   cost,  added  the  bonus  received  in  shares The  accounts  demonstrations of  the  main  subsidiaries  of  the  Corporation were reviewed by our Independent  Accountants,  except  those related to Empresas Brasileiras de Telecomunicações S/AEMBRATEL, which were reviewed by other Independent Certified Accountants.

## 3.  Capital

During the fiscal year, the Company's authorized capital was increased from CR$....................... 5.000.000.000 to CR$ 10.000.000.000 and its subscribed capital was increased from CR$...... 3.606.426.640 to CR$ 5.001.809.727, by means of incorporations of the following values:

| Resources from the Natinal Telecommunications Fund   | CR$   | 1.112.349.883   |
|------------------------------------------------------|-------|-----------------|
| Credits from the Union for the Increase in Capital   |       | 158.000.000     |
| Retained Earnings                                    |       | 74.659.599      |
| Bonus Received                                       |       | 41.754.649      |
| Credits from the Union:                              |       |                 |
| National Integration Plan                            |       | 4.900.000       |
| Financing Revenue                                    |       | 3.301.502       |
| Monetary correction                                  |       | 417.454         |
|                                                      | CR$   | 1.395.383.087   |

Preferred   shares  are  not  entitled  to  vote  having,  however,  the  right  to  a  dividend  of  6% per annum, and the priority for capital investment.

## 4.  EMPRESA BRASILEIRA DE TELECOMUNICAÇÕES S/A-EMBRATEL

On November 14, 1972, Empresa Brasileira de Telecomunicações S/A-EMBRATEL, had a US$.... 97.543.511  debt  with  Brascan  Limited  (under  its  previous  name  of  Brazilian Traction Light &amp;  Power  Companu  Limited)  by  the acquisition of the lot of the companies which, on March 26, 1966,  were  part  of the Companhia Telefônica Brasileira Group. This debt was absorved by the Corporation  in  exchange  of  shares, at nominal values, of the Companhia Telefônica Brasileira, for the corresponding value in Cruzeiros, to the Dollar rate on November 14, 1972. On  December  31,  1974,  the  total amount of the debt was CR$ 602.082.720, brought up to the Dollar  rate  in  force  at  that  date,  CR$ 41.051.095,  due  on  short  term  payable   notes.   This balance  will  be  paid  by  the  Corporation  in  44  quarterly  equal instalments, in the amount of US$  1.840.444,  at  the  daily  rate,  the  last  one  on  January  1,  1986,  the  exchange  variation at  the  time of payment to be absorbed by the resources from the National Telecommunications Fund.

GILBERTO GERALDO GARBI TECHNICAL DIRECTOR

GERALDO GOMES DA SILVA OPERATIONS DIRECTOR

WALTER GUERRA DO AMARAL

CHIEF, COMPRTROLLER DEPARTMENT

JUHITE SHIGUTI

ACCOUNTANT-CRC-58.546-SP-T-DF

## REPORT OF FISCAL COUNCIL

The undersigned, members of the Fiscal Council of Telecomunicações Brasileiras S/A-TELEBRÁS, having proceeded the review of the financial balance, the breakdown and the remaining documentation referred to the fiscal year of 1974, and having found them in accord and, also based on the report of the Independent Cirtified Accountants, are of the opinion that they deserve the approval of the Shareholders Assembly.

Brasília, March 25, 1975

MOACIR DE SOUZA BRÚNA

JOSÉ DE MELO SOBRINHO

EUCLIDES BERNARDINO GOMES

The application programming of TELEBRÁS Group on Technical Immobilization for the expansion of the National Telecommunications System for the year of 1975,   reaches the amount of 13.000 million Cruzeiros.

The sources for these applications are: the National Fund for Telecommunications, Budgeting Resources of the Union, other TELEBRÁS resources, besides those from the Group Companies, and domestic and foreign credit operations.

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

The  major  capital  investments  will  be  made  by  the  following  companies:

| COMPANY   |   FORECAST INVESTMENTS (Cr$ Million) |
|-----------|--------------------------------------|
| TELESP    |                                 3.5  |
| EMBRATEL  |                                 1.9  |
| C.T.B     |                                 1.5  |
| TELEMI G  |                                 1.15 |
| Other     |                                 4.95 |
| T O T A L |                                13    |

These investments are necessary for the attainment of the goals established in the II National Development Plan to provide not only for the expansion of services' demand, but also, to improve the economic outcome of the Group. To make an off-hand appraisal of the meaning of these investments, it should be pointed out that on december 31,   1974, the Company's Immobilized Assets (including those for Works in Progress), was that of 15 billion cruzeiros.

When on january 1, 1975, Regulation nº 1.181 of october 25, 1974, drawn up by His Excellency the Minister of  State for Communications, went  into force, the promising-subscribbers for telephone services became shareholders of TELEBRÁS, to compensate for their financial participation in the investments of the Group Companies, thus giving TELEBRÁS better conditions to promote the sector's integration development.

## IV   -   FINAL   WORDS

The signatory Directory of the present REPORT believes to be of justice to record that, in spite of the notable difficulties of the international conjuncture, the good results reached during the fiscal year had as outweighing factors, the Shareholders confidence, the support of Public Powers, mainly the Ministry of Communications, and the high teamship spirit ruling within the TELEBRÁS GROUP, at all staff levels, committed as they are to improve the quality of assistance to their customers, as well as the behaviour of the national equipment and material industries, fully integrated to the plans of development.

To all of them, TELEBRÁS sincere appreciation.

Brasília, March 21, 1975

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS