## TOPICAL REVIEW • OPEN ACCESS

## Atomic layer deposition for nanoscale oxide semiconductor thin film transistors: review and outlook

To cite this article: Hye-Mi Kim et al 2023 Int. J. Extrem. Manuf. 5 012006

View the article online for updates and enhancements.

## You may also like

- Atomic layer deposition on gram quantities of multi-walled carbon nanotubes Andrew S Cavanagh, Christopher A Wilson, Alan W Weimer et al. -
- (Invited) Spatial ALD Challenges and Opportunities in Advanced Integrated Circuit Manufacturing David O'Meara, Anthony Dip, Masanobu Igeta et al. -
- ALD TaN Barrier for Enhanced Performance with Low Contact Resistance for 14nm Technology Node Cu Interconnects -
- Joyeeta Nag, Brian Cohen, Samuel Choi et al.

<!-- image -->

Int. J. Extrem. Manuf. 5 (2023) 012006 (28pp)

https://doi.org/10.1088/2631-7990/acb46d

## Topical Review

## Atomic layer deposition for nanoscale oxide semiconductor thin film transistors: review and outlook

<!-- image -->

Hye-Mi Kim, Dong-Gyu Kim, Yoon-Seo Kim, Minseok Kim and Jin-Seong Park ∗ 

Division of Materials Science and Engineering, Hanyang University, 222 Wangsimni-ro, Seongdong-gu, Seoul 04763, Republic of Korea

E-mail: jsparklime@hanyang.ac.kr

Received 10 October 2022, revised 10 December 2022 Accepted for publication 17 January 2023 Published 3 February 2023

<!-- image -->

## Abstract

Since the first report of amorphous In-Ga-Zn-O based thin film transistors, interest in oxide semiconductors has grown. They offer high mobility, low off-current, low process temperature, and wide flexibility for compositions and processes. Unfortunately, depositing oxide semiconductors using conventional processes like physical vapor deposition leads to problematic issues, especially for high-resolution displays and highly integrated memory devices. Conventional approaches have limited process flexibility and poor conformality on structured surfaces. Atomic layer deposition (ALD) is an advanced technique which can provide conformal, thickness-controlled, and high-quality thin film deposition. Accordingly, studies on ALD based oxide semiconductors have dramatically increased recently. Even so, the relationships between the film properties of ALD-oxide semiconductors and the main variables associated with deposition are still poorly understood, as are many issues related to applications. In this review, to introduce ALD-oxide semiconductors, we provide: (a) a brief summary of the history and importance of ALD-based oxide semiconductors in industry, (b) a discussion of the benefits of ALD for oxide semiconductor deposition ( in-situ composition control in vertical distribution/vertical structure engineering/chemical reaction and film properties/insulator and interface engineering), and (c) an explanation of the challenging issues of scaling oxide semiconductors and ALD for industrial applications. This review provides valuable perspectives for researchers who have interest in semiconductor materials and electronic device applications, and the reasons ALD is important to applications of oxide semiconductors.

Keywords: atomic layer deposition (ALD), oxide semiconductor, thin film transistor (TFT)

∗ Author to whom any correspondence should be addressed.

<!-- image -->

Original content from this work may be used under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 licence. Any fur- ther distribution of this work must maintain attribution to the author(s) and the title of the work, journal citation and DOI.

## 1. Introduction

## 1.1 . Recent progress in oxide semiconductors for thin-film transistors

The first demonstration of an amorphous oxide semiconductor (AOS) in 1996 shocked conventional views of semiconducting materials because they exhibited superior electrical performance, in spite of their amorphous structure. In early reports on semiconductors such as crystalline silicon-based, organic, oxide semiconductors and amorphous hydrogenated silicon (a-Si:H), the amorphous structure was considered an obstacle to high mobility, but it did promise better uniformity and lower process temperature for mass production [1]. In a-Si:H channel thin film transistor (TFT), the highly localized band structure and following limited mobility edge led to a low mobility of just ∼ 1 cm 2 V -1 s -1 [2].

However, it was proposed that AOS could have different orbital structures and electron pathways. It was suggested that metal cations with electronic configurations of ( n -1)d 10 ns 0 ( n ⩾ 4) could have a small electron effective mass because the electron path, i.e., the conduction band minimum (CBM), is composed of widely spread and overlapping isotropic n s 0 orbitals. As a result, they could exhibit high mobility despite the amorphous phase. Based on this theoretical background, in 2004, amorphous In-Ga-Zn-O (a-IGZO) was reported by Nomura et al [3]; its orbital structure and bandgap formation are described in figures 1(a) and (b). The percolation transport model, which is described in figure 1(c), was suggested by Nomura et al to be the reason for the high Hall mobility, which exceeded 10 cm 2 V -1 s -1 , and the 6-9 cm 2 V -1 s -1 saturation mobility of the a-IGZO channel TFT [4]. After this, reports on AOS in both industry and academia dramatically increased. The AOS were reported to have superior electrical characteristics and processing conditions, including high TFT mobility, low off-current, adequate operating voltage, low process temperature, high uniformity, and wide flexibility of chemical compositions and deposition methods [5].

As noted, AOS was a promising semiconducting material. However, its mobility was far lower ( ∼ 10 cm 2 V -1 s -1 ) than low-temperature polycrystalline silicon (LTPS, &gt; 80 cm 2 V -1 s -1 ). Also, inferior bias stabilities induced by oxygen-related defect sites still needed to be improved for industrial applications. Various approaches have been explored to overcome such issues in mass production. However, recent research has reported there is a trade-off relation between mobility and stability in AOS-TFT fabricated by conventional processes [6]. AOS-TFTs with high mobility have critical stability issues. Oxygen is considered to be key to mobility and stability, because of its role as both the source of free carriers and defect sites ( V o ). Cation and oxygen ratio control have been studied to overcome this issue. Cation dopants such as Sn, which have large cation orbitals, have been introduced, and are expected to provide high electron mobility [7]. To achieve high stability, dopants such as Zr (Zr-In-Zn-O) [8], Hf (Hf-In-Zn-O) [9], and Si (Si-In-ZnO) [10] have been suggested. Small amounts of W doping have also been introduced to suppress V o and achieve high stability using the high tungsten-oxide bond-dissociation energy in the In2O3 matrix (In-W-O) [11, 12]. Fabrication of crystalline oxide semiconductors was also explored to enhance electrical performance. In 2012, c -axis aligned crystalline IGZO (CAAC-IGZO) reported by the Semiconductor Energy Laboratory (SEL) exhibited high mobility (50 cm 2 V -1 s -1 ), extremely low off-current ( ∼ 10 -24 A µ m 1 ) and enhanced -bias stability, but it was necessary to increase the process temperature up to 800 ◦ C [13]. A double active layer [14], back-channel treatment [15], and front-channel modulation [16] of TFTs were studied to optimize device properties. In addition to these studies, TFT structure optimization [17], interface engineering [18], post-treatment [19], and anion doping [20] were also investigated to improve the mobility and stability of oxide semiconductors.

## 1.2. History of oxide semiconductor TFTs in display and memory industries

Since the first report of a-IGZO based TFTs, industry interest in oxide semiconductor channel-based TFTs has dramatically increased. Figure 1(d) is an illustration of the development of oxide semiconductors in the display and memory industries. After the announcement of a-IGZO, the display industry shifted their interest from a-Si:H to AOS. The first commercialization of an AOS TFT was reported in 2012 in a liquid crystal display panel by Sharp Corporation. This is quite a rapid adoption considering the short history of the material itself. It was possible because the demand for flexible and transparent displays on thermally vulnerable substrates at large scale could be accomplished with the a-IGZO, at lower temperature (under 300 ◦ C) with high uniformity . Also, fully 3 transparent circuits could be achieved in AOS-TFTs if the oxide compartments were selected properly, and this drove the adoption of AOS-TFT circuits for display applications. Lowtemperature poly-silicon (LTPS) was limited by issues with its large-scale uniformity, high off-current, and high cost, and this resulted in broad research and various commercialized AOSTFTs for displays, including large organic light emitting diode (OLED) TVs [21-24]. Currently, low-temperature polycrystalline oxide based backplanes are used [25]. These employ LTPS as the driving transistor for high on-current, and AOS as the switching transistor with low off-current.

At the same time, research in the memory field has concentrated on scaling down, to reduce unit area and enable three-dimensional (3D) integration, rather than investigating another semiconductor material [26]. To achieve high-density unit cells, the memory industry has expanded device structures from planar to 3D-structures such as vertical- [27], fin- [28], gate-all-around (GAA) [29], and channel-all-around (CAA) [30] devices. However, the scaling down approach now faces hurdles because of the steady increase in off-current in the unit transistors at reduced scale.

The first adoption of oxide semiconductors in a memory device was reported by Atsumi et al and involved dynamic oxide semiconductor random access memory (DOSRAM) [31]. The extremely low off-current of the oxide

Figure 1. Overview of the oxide semiconductor concept and its history in industry. (a) Orbital structure of crystalline (c-Si) and amorphous Si (a-Si) oxide semiconductors. (b) Differences in the formation mechanism of bandgaps in a-Si, c-Si, and a-IGZO. (c) Schematic illustration of percolation conduction mechanism and the proportional relationships of carrier density and mobility. (d) Developments related to oxide semiconductors in the display and memory industry after the report of a-IGZO. Images of devices are permitted from Samsung display.

<!-- image -->

semiconductors made them candidates to replace silicon semiconductors in memory, and studies on this topic increased. Various research on DOSRAM [32, 33], and other devices such as charge trap devices [34], vertical-NAND (V-NAND) [35], monolithic 3D DRAM [36], vertical Fe-NAND [37], and CAAfield effect transistors (FETs) [30] have been reported to date, as shown in figure 1(d). However, insufficient on-current, the low device stability of the AOS-TFT, and sputtering-based processes are huge barriers to further expansion in display and memory fields, and still need to be overcome.

## 2. Value of ALD as a fabrication process for oxide semiconductor channel TFTs

To fabricate the latest electronic devices a next-generation processing technique is required to overcome the disadvantages of conventional processes. Atomic layer deposition (ALD) is a highly developed, Å-scale controlled thin film deposition technique, and has progressed from chemical vapor deposition (CVD). In ALD, self-limiting behaviors and complementary reactions occur during the deposition process [38, 39]. In the

<!-- image -->

Figure 2. The merits of ALD, and growing interest. (a) Schematic illustration of PVD and ALD, and the deposition characteristics on a structured surface. (b) The graph shows the number of published works from scopus.com in September 2022 which includes the keyword on ALD/oxide semiconductor/TFT in the article title, abstract, and keywords.

<!-- image -->

self-limiting behavior, the chemical reaction of precursors and reactants on surfaces self-saturate when the initial reactive site is fully occupied, regardless of dosing amount. Complementary reactions are responsible for ALD chemical reactions, involving at least two different molecules separately exposed to the surface, for thin film deposition. These two mechanisms lead to conformal and high-quality thin film deposition at low temperature ( &lt; 350 ◦ C). With ALD, high uniformity can be achieved with the chemical reaction mechanism, even on high aspect ratio (AR) structured surfaces. This is still a problematic issue with conventional physical vapor deposition (PVD) processes [39]. Figure 2(a) exhibits a schematic illustration of a sputtering system used for ALD and the difference in film deposition morphology with high AR devices. Because of these merits, ALD is already used for dielectric layer deposition in commercial dynamic random access memory (DRAM) and NAND flash memory [40] and for OLED displays as an encapsulation layer deposition process [41].

For oxide semiconductors, conventional sputtering systems clearly have many advantages in terms of mass production. High throughput and scalability have led to mature a-IGZO sputtering processes. However, several issues have emerged. These include non-uniformity on large-area substrates [85], limited process parameters to optimize, difficulty in modulating composition, and trade-offs in mobility-reliability, which are critical issues in devices but are hard to control using a single target and the limited process conditions of a sputtering system [6]. On the other hand, ALD avoids these issues. The unique nature of ALD enables both high uniformity and facile control in composition and stacking processes. Also, interest in a fabrication process for each layer has increased recently, with the requirements of continuously scaled-down devices. Figure 2(b) shows publication trends, which reflect increasing interest in ALD, in oxide semiconductors and in TFTs. The combined study of oxide semiconductors, thin film transistors, and ALD together only emerged about 10 years ago. This trend coincides with the increasing need for oxide semiconductors, especially for display and memory industries, as shown in figure 1(d).

Table 1 is a summary of representative reports of ALDdeposited n-type oxide semiconductor channel TFTs in the last 3 years (2020-2022). With the growing interest in ALD, studies on materials using ALD have also rapidly increased, as shown in the table, which will be discussed in this review. In particular, superior electrical performances have been recently reported, including a remarkable mobility of over 100 cm 2 V -1 s -1 [43, 46], an exceptionally low subthreshold swing under 100 mV/decade [64, 66, 80, 83], and highly improved stability using a stack structure [14]. However, the main benefits of employing ALD for oxide semiconductor channel TFTs have not been clearly suggested. So, what are the main differences between ALD-deposited oxide semiconductors compared to conventionally deposited ones, and how can we achieve desired performance with ALD processes?

This section will introduce several recent studies that provide an explanation for why ALD-oxide semiconductor TFTs have become industrially important. We suggest ALD provides four benefits in oxide semiconductor TFT fabrication. Each subsection includes suitable examples of ALD oxide semiconductor films or TFTs from research.

## 2.1 . In-situ composition control

The first benefit of ALD is the controllability of composition during an in-situ process. Multiple components, which can readily make ternary- and quaternary- amorphous phases, are favored over binary oxide semiconductors, because crystallinity and grain size degrade electrical performance. In multicomponent oxide semiconductors, the elemental distribution and composition significantly influence the electrical characteristics, especially when used for TFT channel layers. Unlike conventional processes, the cycle-dependent composition and thickness controllability of ALD allows wide control over cation distribution in the bulk-, frontand back-channel

<!-- image -->

Table 1. (Continued.)

| References                             | [67]                                                                                                                                                                                                    | [68]                                                                                                                                                                                                    | [69]                                                                                                                                                                                                    | [70]                                                                                                                                                                                                    | [71]                                                                                                                                                                                                    | [72]                                                                                                                                                                                                    | [73]                                                                                                                                                                                                    | [74]                                                                                                                                                                                                    | [75]                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
|----------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Year                                   | 2020                                                                                                                                                                                                    | 2020                                                                                                                                                                                                    | 2020                                                                                                                                                                                                    | 2022                                                                                                                                                                                                    | 2020                                                                                                                                                                                                    | 2021                                                                                                                                                                                                    | 2021                                                                                                                                                                                                    | 2021                                                                                                                                                                                                    | 2021                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| S.S (V/dec)                            | 0.22                                                                                                                                                                                                    | 0.43                                                                                                                                                                                                    | 0.33                                                                                                                                                                                                    | 0.223                                                                                                                                                                                                   | 0.22                                                                                                                                                                                                    | 0.54                                                                                                                                                                                                    | 0.55                                                                                                                                                                                                    | 0.28                                                                                                                                                                                                    | 0.36                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| V TH                                   | N/S                                                                                                                                                                                                     | N/S                                                                                                                                                                                                     | - 0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                   | 3.73                                                                                                                                                                                                    | 0.82                                                                                                                                                                                                    | N/S                                                                                                                                                                                                     | N/S                                                                                                                                                                                                     | N/S                                                                                                                                                                                                     | - 0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| TFT mobility (max) (cm 2 V - 1 s - 1 ) | 16.2                                                                                                                                                                                                    | 13.8                                                                                                                                                                                                    | 13.6                                                                                                                                                                                                    | 12.4                                                                                                                                                                                                    | 21.11                                                                                                                                                                                                   | 0.19                                                                                                                                                                                                    | 13.6                                                                                                                                                                                                    | 27.6                                                                                                                                                                                                    | 28.0                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| T dep b ( ◦ C)                         | 150                                                                                                                                                                                                     | 200                                                                                                                                                                                                     | 250                                                                                                                                                                                                     | 150                                                                                                                                                                                                     | 150                                                                                                                                                                                                     | 150                                                                                                                                                                                                     | 200                                                                                                                                                                                                     | 150                                                                                                                                                                                                     | 200                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| Reactant                               | H2O                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Thermal H2O and O2 plasma                                                                                                                                                                               | O3                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Thermal H2O and                                                                                                                                                                                         | O2 plasma O2 plasma                                                                                                                                                                                     | O3                                                                                                                                                                                                      | O3                                                                                                                                                                                                      | O3                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Ar/O2 plasma                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| Precursor a                            | TDMASn DEZ Ga2(NMe2)6 DEZ TDMASn DEZ TDMASn N/S DADI TMGa DEZ In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ TEIn In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ TEIn In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ | TDMASn DEZ Ga2(NMe2)6 DEZ TDMASn DEZ TDMASn N/S DADI TMGa DEZ In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ TEIn In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ TEIn In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ | TDMASn DEZ Ga2(NMe2)6 DEZ TDMASn DEZ TDMASn N/S DADI TMGa DEZ In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ TEIn In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ TEIn In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ | TDMASn DEZ Ga2(NMe2)6 DEZ TDMASn DEZ TDMASn N/S DADI TMGa DEZ In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ TEIn In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ TEIn In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ | TDMASn DEZ Ga2(NMe2)6 DEZ TDMASn DEZ TDMASn N/S DADI TMGa DEZ In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ TEIn In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ TEIn In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ | TDMASn DEZ Ga2(NMe2)6 DEZ TDMASn DEZ TDMASn N/S DADI TMGa DEZ In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ TEIn In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ TEIn In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ | TDMASn DEZ Ga2(NMe2)6 DEZ TDMASn DEZ TDMASn N/S DADI TMGa DEZ In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ TEIn In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ TEIn In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ | TDMASn DEZ Ga2(NMe2)6 DEZ TDMASn DEZ TDMASn N/S DADI TMGa DEZ In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ TEIn In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ TEIn In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ | TDMASn DEZ Ga2(NMe2)6 DEZ TDMASn DEZ TDMASn N/S DADI TMGa DEZ In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ TEIn In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ TEIn In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ |
| Material                               | ZnGaO                                                                                                                                                                                                   | ZnSnO                                                                                                                                                                                                   |                                                                                                                                                                                                         |                                                                                                                                                                                                         |                                                                                                                                                                                                         | InGaZnO                                                                                                                                                                                                 |                                                                                                                                                                                                         |                                                                                                                                                                                                         |                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| Channel information                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                         |                                                                                                                                                                                                         |                                                                                                                                                                                                         |                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Quaternary                                                                                                                                                                                              |                                                                                                                                                                                                         |                                                                                                                                                                                                         |                                                                                                                                                                                                         |                                                                                                                                                                                                         |

Table 1. (Continued.)

<!-- image -->

| References                             | [76]                                                                                                                                                                                                      | [77]                                                                                                                                                                                                      | [78]                                                                                                                                                                                                      | [14]                                                                                                                                                                                                      | [79]                                                                                                                                                                                                      | [30]                                                                                                                                                                                                      | [80]                                                                                                                                                                                                      | [81]                                                                                                                                                                                                      | [82]                                                                                                                                                                                                      | [83]                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
|----------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Year                                   | 2021                                                                                                                                                                                                      | 2021                                                                                                                                                                                                      | 2021                                                                                                                                                                                                      | 2022                                                                                                                                                                                                      | 2022                                                                                                                                                                                                      | 2022                                                                                                                                                                                                      | 2022                                                                                                                                                                                                      | 2021                                                                                                                                                                                                      | 2022                                                                                                                                                                                                      | 2022                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| S.S (V/dec)                            | 0.24                                                                                                                                                                                                      | 0.13                                                                                                                                                                                                      | 0.46                                                                                                                                                                                                      | 0.20                                                                                                                                                                                                      | 0.29                                                                                                                                                                                                      | 0.23                                                                                                                                                                                                      | 0.068                                                                                                                                                                                                     | 0.33                                                                                                                                                                                                      | 0.366                                                                                                                                                                                                     | 0.079                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| V TH                                   | 1.07                                                                                                                                                                                                      | 1.18                                                                                                                                                                                                      | N/S                                                                                                                                                                                                       | 0.13                                                                                                                                                                                                      | 0.09                                                                                                                                                                                                      | - 3.5                                                                                                                                                                                                     | 0.19                                                                                                                                                                                                      | 9.5                                                                                                                                                                                                       | 6.8                                                                                                                                                                                                       | - 0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| TFT mobility (max) (cm 2 V - 1 s - 1 ) | 27.52                                                                                                                                                                                                     | 21.7                                                                                                                                                                                                      | 3.21                                                                                                                                                                                                      | 23.26                                                                                                                                                                                                     | 0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                       | N/S                                                                                                                                                                                                       | 40.86                                                                                                                                                                                                     | 2.2                                                                                                                                                                                                       | 2.28                                                                                                                                                                                                      | 33.8                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| T dep b ( ◦ C)                         | 200                                                                                                                                                                                                       | 250                                                                                                                                                                                                       | 150                                                                                                                                                                                                       | 200                                                                                                                                                                                                       | 150                                                                                                                                                                                                       | 250                                                                                                                                                                                                       | 200                                                                                                                                                                                                       | 200                                                                                                                                                                                                       | 200                                                                                                                                                                                                       | 200                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| Reactant                               | O2 plasma                                                                                                                                                                                                 | O3                                                                                                                                                                                                        | O3                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Ar/O2 plasma                                                                                                                                                                                              | O3                                                                                                                                                                                                        | O2 plasma                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Ar/O2 plasma                                                                                                                                                                                              | H2O                                                                                                                                                                                                       | H2O                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Ar/O2 plasma                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| Precursor a                            | DADI TMGa DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ TEIn In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ TMIn TDMASn TMA TMIn TDMASn TMA DADI BDMADMSn TMGa | DADI TMGa DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ TEIn In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ TMIn TDMASn TMA TMIn TDMASn TMA DADI BDMADMSn TMGa | DADI TMGa DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ TEIn In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ TMIn TDMASn TMA TMIn TDMASn TMA DADI BDMADMSn TMGa | DADI TMGa DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ TEIn In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ TMIn TDMASn TMA TMIn TDMASn TMA DADI BDMADMSn TMGa | DADI TMGa DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ TEIn In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ TMIn TDMASn TMA TMIn TDMASn TMA DADI BDMADMSn TMGa | DADI TMGa DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ TEIn In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ TMIn TDMASn TMA TMIn TDMASn TMA DADI BDMADMSn TMGa | DADI TMGa DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ TEIn In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ TMIn TDMASn TMA TMIn TDMASn TMA DADI BDMADMSn TMGa | DADI TMGa DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ TEIn In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ TMIn TDMASn TMA TMIn TDMASn TMA DADI BDMADMSn TMGa | DADI TMGa DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ TEIn In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ TMIn TDMASn TMA TMIn TDMASn TMA DADI BDMADMSn TMGa | DADI TMGa DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ TEIn In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ TMIn TDMASn TMA TMIn TDMASn TMA DADI BDMADMSn TMGa |
| Material                               |                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                           | InSnAlO                                                                                                                                                                                                   |                                                                                                                                                                                                           | InSnGaO                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| Channel information                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                           |

Table 1. (Continued.)

|                                      | References           | [62]          | [14]              | [84]                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
|--------------------------------------|----------------------|---------------|-------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|                                      | Year 2022            | 2022          | 2022              | 2022                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
|                                      | S.S (V/dec) 0.13     | 0.19          | 0.19              | N/S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
|                                      | V TH - 0.37          | - 0.73        | - 1.33            | N/S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| TFT mobility (max) (cm 2 V - 1 s - 1 | 76.7                 | 68.1          | 38.77             | 50.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| T b ( ◦ C)                           | 250                  | 250           | 200               | 200                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| Reactant                             | O3                   | O3            | Ar/O2 plasma      | O3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| a                                    | Precursor DADI TMGa  | DEZ DADI TMGa | DEZ DADI TMGa DEZ | TEIn In-Ga bimetallic single precursor DEZ                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| dep )                                | Material InZnO/GaZnO | InGaO/GaZnO   | InZnO/InGaZnO     | InZnO/InGaZnO Precursor names represent the chemicals as follows: dimethylbutylamino(trimethyl indium) (DATI), trimethyl gallium (TMGa), diethyl zinc(DEZ), imethyl[N-(tert-butyl)-2-methoxy-2-methylpropan-1-amine] indium (DMION), triethyl indium (TEIn), trimethyl indium (TMIn), trimethyl aluminum (TMA), tetrakis (dimethylamido)tin (TDMASn), dimethylaluminum isopropoxide (DMAI), In(CH3)3[CH3OCH2CH2NHtBu] (TMION), Ga(CH3)3[CH3OCH2CH2NHt-Bu]) (TMGON), tetrakiszirconium (TDMAZr). ALD process temperature of fabricated TFT channel layer in the references. |
| Channel information                  | Stacked              |               |                   | a b                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |

Figure 3. Description of ALD benefits 1: in-situ composition control in vertical distribution. (a) Schematic illustration of ALD super-cycle and electrical performance optimization of ALD-IGZO by screening In2O3 sub-cycles. Reprinted with permission from [86]. Copyright (2019) American Chemical Society. (b) Description of gradient composition in active layer and improvement in TFT performance by designing gradient distribution of Al from the front to the back-channel region. Reprinted from [87], with the permission of AIP Publishing.

<!-- image -->

regions. In sum, (a) composition control of multi-component oxide semiconductors and (b) vertical gradient distributions of cation composition can be achieved in ALD-fabricated oxide semiconductor channel TFTs, as will be described in detail in this section.

2.1 .1 . Homogeneous composition control via ALD super-cycle in multi-component oxide semiconductors. Figure 3(a) exhibits a scheme for ALD super-cycles and shows the differences in observed TFT performance based on super-cycle. An ALD super-cycle is a procedure for processing multiple components that need several different unit cycles (sub-cycles). ALD is basically used in repeated unit cycles, and deposition proceeds with precursor pulsing/inert gas purging/reactant pulsing/inert gas purging steps. The precursor and reactant dosing steps are separated by inert gas purging steps, which release physisorbed precursor, reactant, and by-products. To fabricate an A-B-O x thin film by ALD, a combination of one AO sub-cycle and one BO y z sub-cycle, i.e., an (AO )-(BO ) x z super-cycle, is selected. Likewise, if we need to fabricate an In-Ga-Zn-O x thin film by ALD, sub-cycles of InO , GaO y z and ZnO w would be needed to make a super-cycle.

indium sub-cycles, the indium ratio increased from 11.5 (4 In2O3 sub-cycles) to 22.9 at% (24 In2O3 sub-cycles). Unlike sputtered IGZO, sparse-density or porous regions were not observed, and a uniform/homogeneous IGZO thin film was confirmed by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and energy dispersive X-Ray analysis (EDAX) analysis. When the indium ratio was low, the carrier concentration and Hall mobility exhibited a temperature dependence. However, these two factors become independent of temperature when the indium ratio increased. This indicates that the conduction mechanism of ALD-deposited IGZO for an optimized indium ratio is similar to that of single-crystal IGZO [88], and this was suggested as the reason for the good electrical characteristics of ALD-IGZO TFT, including high mobility up to 74 cm 2 V -1 s -1 , a -1.3 V threshold voltage ( V TH), and a 0.26 V/decade subthreshold swing (SS). This study illustrated the importance of having a deep understanding of the ALD process, and the main variables needed to achieve high-performance TFTs. Cycle-dependent deposition characteristics, and the chemistry of the precursor/ reactant/surface, seemed to be the origin of the unreported conduction mechanism in a-IGZO deposited by conventional deposition processes.

Most studies of ALD-oxide semiconductors exploit this super-cycle to control compositions. The ALD super-cycles shown in figure 3(a) are representative studies of ALDoxide semiconductor TFTs by Sheng et al suggesting optimization of the indium ratio and vertical dimensional control by modulating the number of indium oxide sub-cycles [86]. ALD-IGZO was fabricated by super-cycles consisting of n In2O3 sub-cycles, one Ga2O3 sub-cycle and one ZnO sub-cycle, where n is 4-48. Depending on the number of

Many studies have also reported the super-cycle-based composition screening of ALD-oxide semiconductors. Sheng et al reported an optimized InZnSnO (IZTO) channel using the super-cycle method [89]. Based on the ALD-IZO process, Sn-doping was conducted for one or two SnO2 subcycles to fabricate the IZTO channel. As the Sn ratio increased, the carrier concentration, Hall mobility, and defect levels all decreased. However, when the Sn ratio increased to 15.8 at% (2 SnO2 sub-cycles), increased contact resistance and

interface trap densities were observed, leading to degradation of the field-effect-mobility. Consequently, the optimized TFT was achieved with a 1-1-1 In2O3-ZnO-SnO2 super-cycle, which exhibited a high mobility of 27.8 cm 2 V -1 s -1 and superb reliability against bending tests ( ∆ V TH -1.7 V after 240 000 rolling cycles). Baek et al reported that an ALDIZTO channel TFT exhibited an optimized cation ratio of In/Zn/Sn = 10:70:20 with a mobility of 22 cm 2 V -1 s -1 , a V on of 0.8 V, and a SS of 0.15 V/decade [90]. This optimized composition was achieved using a super-cycle consisting of one ZnO sub-cycle, one In2O3 sub-cycle, and two SnO2 sub-cycles. When the indium and/or tin ratio was increased, mobility increased, but V TH shifted to the negative region. In this study, the authors pointed out that the multi-component mixing did not perfectly agree with the calculated composition based on the rule of mixtures. However, data accumulated by cation mapping and target composition could be achieved with ALD. IGZO cation mapping was studied by Cho et al [77]. Depending on the In-Ga-Zn ratio, the field effect mobility varied from under 10 cm 2 V -1 s -1 to over 100 cm 2 V -1 s -1 with a wide range of V TH. Similar research was conducted for IZO by Lee et al who showed two sub-cycles of InO x and one sub-cycle of ZnO were the optimized compositions for TFTs with 30 cm 2 V -1 s -1 mobility [91].

Oxidants could be a variable in super-cycle design. Allemang et al suggested an oxidant-based hybrid super-cycle (H2O for the ZnO sub-cycle and O2 plasma for the SnO2 sub-cycle) that led to improved electrical characteristics compared to when only H2O was used in the deposition process [68]. This study found that oxygen vacancy control could be achieved in ALD using an oxidant. The effect of an oxidant on film properties is quite important in ALD-oxide semiconductors, which will be explained in detail in section 2.3.

2.1 .2. Homogeneous composition control via co-injection of metal precursors in multi-component oxide semiconductors. Super-cycle-based composition control is not the only way to fabricate a multi-composition oxide semiconductor thin film in ALD. Co-injection of the precursors into the ALD chamber to obtain a desired metal ratio and cation contribution has been introduced by various researchers. This method exploits the competitive adsorption of precursors, by controlling the individual dosing amounts of precursors using precursor temperature, flow rate of carrier gas, or exposure time. Illiberi et al reported a co-injection method for trimethyl aluminum (TMA) and diethyl zinc (DEZ) precursors in spatial ALD (S-ALD) [92]. The authors suggested that precursor co-injection method allows not only superior control of film thickness, but also fully controllable stoichiometry of the Al Zn1 x -x O thin film. Super-cycle-based composition control leads to inevitable nucleation delay when a multi-component fabrication is implemented, which can result in a discrepancy in total GPC and film thickness from the expected one. However, using the co-injection method retains the GPC, compared to individual binary oxide deposition (GPCZnO = 0.20 nm/cycles, GPCAl2O3 = 0.12 nm/cycles, GPCAlZnO = 0.12-0.20 nm/cycle). When TMA flow was increased from 0 to 57 µ mol min -1 , the Al/(Zn + Al) ratio sharply increased from 6% to 42%. The X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) depth profile revealed that the fabricated Al Zn1 x -x O film had a constant cation ratio, from the surface to the bottom layer of the deposited film. Hsu et al reported Al-doped ZnO thin film fabrication using the coinjection method in S-ALD [93]. The co-injection of TMA and DEZ led to the high doping efficiency of 73%, while the Al atoms in the super-cycle-based Al-Zn-O (AZO) acted as impurities in the matrix rather than efficient dopants. Optimized efficiency could be obtained with a 41 ◦ C temperature for both precursors, which resulted in 1% of Al content and a low resistivity of 3.5 × 10 -4 Ω cm -1 , which is comparable to an ITO electrode. Illiberi et al reported a co-injection method, adopted for quaternary thin film fabrication, IGZO by S-ALD [94]. DEZ, trimethyl indium (TMIn), triethyl gallium (TEGa) were used as precursors and co-injected into a chamber for deposition with H2O as the oxidant. Although TMIn and TEGa do not react with the H2O, the co-injection of TMIn/DEZ and TMIn/TEGa/DEZ led to the fabrication of IZO and IGZO, respectively. This suggests that DEZ activates the chemisorbed TMIn and TEGa to cause a polarity-induced dissociation of the remaining ligand groups, and the subsequent formation of reactive sites for the next precursor dosing step. Based on this result, the authors fabricated a 15 nm a-IGZO channel TFT which exhibited a 3.5 cm 2 V -1 s -1 of µ FE and very low hysteresis. Illiberi et al also reported IZO fabricated by the co-injection method, and S-ALD, which had a high µ FE of 30 cm 2 V -1 s -1 [95]. In this study, DEZ, TMIn and O2/N2 plasma were introduced as the metal precursors and oxidant. Depending on the exposure time of the precursors, a 0.13-0.70 In/(In + Zn) ratio could be achieved. TEM confirmed a homogeneous distribution could be achieved from bottom to top in amorphous IZO thin film using this method.

2.1 .3. Vertical gradient distribution in channel layer. Compositional distributions of oxide semiconductors are not always homogeneous because of the inherent layer by layer deposition character of ALD. Unlike conventional PVD, a vertical gradient elemental distribution can be achieved in ALD by combining several super-cycles. For example, if AO x is a conductive but defective oxide semiconductor, and BO y is an insulating but defect-less structured oxide semiconductor, we could assume that the design of a TFT as an A-rich/B-poor front channel and A-poor/B-rich back channel would be superior in mobility and reliability than a homogeneous ABO x channel layer, which is illustrated in figure 3(b).

Gradient distribution of the AZO channel in TFT was reported by Ahn et al [87]. In their study, three different sequences of super-cycles were employed: 19/1, 9/1, 6/1 of Zn-O/AlO sub-cycles to achieve 95:5, 90:10, 86:14 at% Zn:Al composition ratios, respectively. They compared Channel 1, which had ascending step compositions (5/10/14 at% in Al composition) and Channel 2, which had descending step compositions (14/10/5 at% in Al composition). The mobility and reliability of the TFTs varied depending on the Al composition in the front and back-channel region, which indicates the importance

of compositional distributions of 0.05 cm 2 V -1 s -1 in Channel 2 and 0.6 cm 2 V -1 s -1 in Channel 1. Also, when the Al contents of the front-channel decreased to 0 at%, the mobility increased to 4.5 cm 2 V -1 s -1 . Reliability also increased more in Channel 1 than Channel 2, because the high Al ratio in the back-channel resulted in fewer defect sites. When the number of sub-cycles of one element increased enough to form one discrete layer, or many super-cycles were conducted before another sequence of super-cycles were performed, individual layers could be formed in the vertical direction.

The influences of the vertical position of Al locally doped into a ZnO matrix was reported by Chung et al [96]. The thickness of the Al doped region was about 2 nm in all cases, as confirmed by TEM, and the Al doped region varied by 0, 5, 10, 15, 18 nm with respect to the interface of the channel and gate insulator in the bottom gate inverted staggered TFT. The fabricated TFT exhibited varied distribution in µ sat . When the Al doping region ( ∼ 7 at%) was increasingly distant from the depletion region, the significantly decreased µ sat (0.3 cm 2 V -1 s -1 ) compared to the original ZnO TFT (4.5 cm 2 V -1 s -1 ) gradually recovered. Interestingly, above a certain thickness, the Al doped region seemed to have no impact on the electrical performance of the TFT, which could indicate the accumulation width in the channel. Further study of Al doping concentration and vertical position revealed that back-channel doping highly influenced to the V TH shift, and front-channel doping to µ sat . Optimized Al:ZnO channel exhibits 30% increased µ sat (6.0 cm 2 V -1 s -1 ) compared to the original one. This vertical element distribution could be converted to a dual/multi-channel. Studies of such channels fabricated by ALD are explained in section 2.2.

Vertically gradient cation design and the subsequent film characteristics were also evaluated for application as a passivation layer. Zhao et al reported improved photoelectric and passivation properties by fabricating a gradient Al:ZnO film using ALD [97]. In this study, the authors adopted the gradient film fabrication method to achieve low internal stress and strong adhesion to interfaces. The 80 nm of gradient Al:ZnO was deposited by continuously changing the sub-cycle ratio of Al-O/Zn-O from 1/32 to 1/0 cycles. Five different samples with varied Al concentration gradients (0.09, 0.46, 0.71, 0.96, and 1.21% nm -1 ), were fabricated and evaluated, and calculated using the XPS analysis of Al content in the Al:ZnO surface, and the interfaces between the Al:ZnO and substrates. The detailed calculation is described in the reference paper. When the Al gradient was increased from 0 to 1.21% nm -1 , crystallinity diminished, and conductive properties deteriorated. This resulted in the development of surface passivation properties. The optimal passivation performance was exhibited by the gradient film of 0.71% nm -1 with a minority carrier lifetime of 120.6 µ s and a resistivity of 1.89 × 10 -2 Ω cm -1 .

## 2.2. Vertical structure engineering

Homogenous oxide semiconductors deposited by the conventional PVD process have limitations boosting on-current and/or µ FE because of their uniform carrier distribution. Oxide based TFTs with a homogenous active layer have a trade-off relationship between µ FE and V TH because these parameters are closely related to the carrier concentration of the channel layer [98, 99]. For this reason, devices with high µ FE characteristics typically exhibit large negative V TH values [6, 100]. Therefore, they cannot be used in terms of operating voltage. In contrast to a homogeneous active layer, ALDderived oxide-semiconductors have the advantage of main channel tunability, for multi-channel and dual-channel. In addition, the main channel engineered oxide semiconductors exhibit good interface quality between the channels because of the conformality of the ALD process. In this section, we have described vertical structure engineering within the active layer using the ALD process.

2.2.1 . Nano-laminated channel layer. Figure 4(a) shows the electrical characteristics of ALD-derived nano-laminated (InO ) (GaZnO ) x n y m TFTs [101]. Here, the main lateral electron path via drain voltage is determined by the InO x layers because the InO x has a lot of oxygen vacancies, and the spherical 5 s orbitals of indium ions generate an overlapped orbital string. In addition, the GaZnO y layers act as barriers to the out-diffusion of oxygen in the InO x layers and suppresses the electron transmission path along the vertical channel. Therefore, as the thickness of the InO x layer increases from 4 nm to 6 nm, V TH negatively shifts from -3.03 ± 0.85 to -8.21 ± 0.50 V, and µ FE is increased from 9.88 ± 0.19 to 18.00 ± 0.63 cm 2 V -1 s -1 . However, with a further increase in InO x layer thickness from 6 nm to 8 nm, the V TH more negatively shifts from -8.21 ± 0.50 to -12.2 ± 0.94 V, whereas µ FE, SS, and hysteresis significantly decrease ( µ FE: 18.00 ± 0.63 → 5.66 ± 0.26 cm 2 V -1 s -1 , SS: 0.67 ± 0.08 → 0.82 ± 0.02 V/decade, hysteresis: 0.34 ± 0.20 → 0.61 ± 0.25 V). This result is closely related to an increase in acceptor states in both the interface and bulk nano-laminated films, despite increasing carrier concentration. The origin of the increase in acceptor states turned out to be an increase in defect states resulting from InO x crystallization at a specific thickness. The controllability of the active channel layer was also demonstrated in the ZnO nanolayers. Ahn et al reported a ZnO/Al2O3 superlattice active channel layer fabricated by an in-situ ALD process [102]. The E g of the ZnO was lower than that of Al2O3, while electron affinity was high, resulting in quantum confinement of the ZnO by the Al2O3 layers. As a result, the superlattice ZnO/Al2O3 TFT exhibited significantly improved SS (0.7 → 0.3 V/decade) and µ FE (4.8 → 27.8 cm 2 V -1 s -1 ) compared to the single ZnO TFT.

Similarly, Kim et al reported hybrid semiconducting superlattices with a ZnO/4-mercaptophenol (4MP) organic layer [103]. The ZnO and 4MP layers were deposited by alternating ALD and MLD processes. Single ZnO and hybrid superlattice ZnO/4MP TFTs were evaluated at temperatures from 300 to 90 K, to determine the charge transport mechanism. The single ZnO TFT showed typical hopping conduction, while the superlattice ZnO/4MP TFT exhibited a band-like transport model. These results mean that the superlattice ZnO/4MP active layer can form ZnO-derived quantum wells. The

Figure 4. Description of ALD benefit 2: vertical structure engineering of active layer. (a) Schematic and cross-sectional TEM images of the nano-laminated active layer. The devices showed negative V TH shift with increasing In2O3 thickness, which confirmed the possibility of electron pathways via the InO x layer by T-CAD simulation. (b) Band diagram and schematic showing the turn-on state of the active layer fabricated by two different materials. A 2DEG-like channel was formed at the interface of the two different materials by engineering the properties of the materials. The devices showed increased µ sat with a back-channel thickness at a fixed total active layer thickness.

<!-- image -->

dependence of the ZnO-derived quantum wells was verified by the multiple stacks of 4 nm and 0.7 nm-thick ZnO and 4MP, respectively. The single-stack, double-stack, and triple-stack were designated 4MP/ZnO/4MP, 4MP/ZnO/4MP/ZnO/4MP, and 4MP/ZnO/4MP/ZnO/4MP/ZnO/4MP. The intrinsic electron field-effect mobility ( µ 4p ) and SS were enhanced from 30 to 73 cm 2 V -1 s -1 and from 165 to 110 mV/decade, respectively, increasing from single to triple quantum wells.

channel formed at the IZO layer under a driving gate voltage ( V GS = 20 V) in the IGZO/IZO stacked active layer. Similarly, the possibility of a 2DEG-like channel formation using heterojunctions such as IGO/GZO, IZO/GZO, and IGO/ZnO materials has been reported [62, 106]. Bandgap and Fermi-energy level engineered homo-junction IGZO active layers were also reported.

2.2.2. Dual-channel layer. Considering the bandgap and Fermi-energy level of the two different semiconductor materials, an additional two-dimensional electron gas (2DEG)like channel can be formed at the junction interface of the stacked active layer. This is attributed to the increase in oncurrent and/or µ FE of the device [104, 105]. Figure 4(b) represents an ALD-derived dual-channel active layer consisting of two different oxide semiconductor layers [12]. The frontchannel layer consists of IGZO material with semiconductor properties (conductivity: 0.10 ± 0.01 S cm -1 ), whereas the back-channel was a conducting IZO material (conductivity: 584.49 ± 32.22 S cm -1 ). In the stacked active layer, the backchannel thickness varied from 0 to 20 nm, with a total thickness of 20 nm. The saturation mobility ( µ sat ) value obviously increased with back-channel IZO thickness, and eventually the µ sat increased by about 60% with an IZO thickness of 10 nm. The reason for the increase in µ sat was clearly revealed by technology computer-aided design (TCAD) simulations. Compared to a single IGZO channel, an additional 2DEG-like

It has also been reported that Ga2O3 has a large bandgap and narrow valence band level compared to that of In2O3 [107, 108]. In addition, Ga2O3 acts as a carrier suppressor, while the In2O3 participates in carrier generation in the IGZO system [2]. Therefore, a key factor in the homo-junction IGZO active layer is controlling the Ga2O3 and/or In2O3 composition. Cho et al reported a bilayer IGZO channel structure consisting of a 10 nm base layer (In0.52Ga0.29Zn0.19O) and a mobility boost layer (In0.82 Ga0.08Zn0.10O) [77]. As a result, downward band bending of the conduction band maximum energy near the interface between the mobility boost layer and the base layer was observed, which is similar to the 2DEG-like channel formation. In addition, Bae et al fabricated a composition-modified bilayer IGZO channel using a 3 nm thick In-rich prompt layer and a 12 nm thick prime layer [109]. Compared to the single prime layer (In0.32 Ga0.22Zn0.46O), the 3 nm thick prompt IGZO (In0.48 Ga0.11Zn0.41O or In0.53Ga0.11Zn0.36O) layer produced an energy quantization effect due to the formation of quantum confinement wells at the junction surface. Therefore, the single prime layer IGZO TFT showed a 19.6 cm 2 V -1 s -1 µ sat, while the 3 nm thick prompt IGZO layer boosted the µ sat up to 45.5 cm 2 V -1 s -1 .

## 2.3. Chemical reaction and film properties

In contrast to PVD, the distinguishing variables in ALD are extracted from the chemical reaction. The main variables that can significantly influence the reaction pathway (physisorption and chemisorption) and product (thin film and by-product) include precursors and reactants and process conditions such as growth temperature. Analyzing these variables becomes more important for multi-component deposition, because the density of the reactive sites on the surface and the physisorption/chemisorption energy of the components can differ depending on the chemical reactions. Using table 1, we determined that studies of indium-based oxide semiconductors have greatly increased since 2021. Not only binary In2O3 [42-49], but also a ternary as IGO [59-62], IZO [62, 63], In-Al-O (IAO) [64, 65] and ITO [66], quaternary as IGZO [4, 30, 71-80], ITAO [81, 82], and ITGO [83] have been introduced. Also, compared to other materials in table, the precursors for indium oxide are variously used. This is because lack of proper indium precursor which have low cost, high reactivity, and sufficient vapor pressure with a preferred liquid phase, while TMA, DEZ, and trimethyl gallium (TMGa) have been predominantly used. There is an inevitable question in this regard. Is there any difference between two TFTs which have oxide semiconductor channel with identical or similar cation ratio, but different precursors are used during deposition process? This is significant for future applications of ALD oxide semiconductors, but such a study has yet been reported. Accordingly, we will discuss a case study of binary indium oxide, which has been widely studied with various precursors. In this section, we introduce the properties of the ALD-deposited films, their dependence on processing variables related to chemical reactions, and we provide a case study of how a binary oxide (In2O3) depends on such variables, as shown in table 2.

2.3.1 . Importance of chemical reaction related variables in binary system: case study of indium oxide. For ALD, the selection of a proper precursor is the first challenge because there are several requirements, including vapor pressure, viscosity, no self-decomposition, unreactive with by-products, cost, etc [126, 127]. A second problem is controlling the properties (e.g., metal-oxygen ratio, impurity level, and electrical properties) of the film being fabricated with the selected precursor. Various oxidants are also exploited as reactants for ALD-oxide semiconductors, including oxygen-based plasma, O3, O2, N2O, H2O2 and H2O. The oxidizing power of the reactant can determine the metal-oxygen ratio, impurity level, and the phase of the material. The importance of precursor/oxidant selection in a binary system will be discussed, using a case study of indium oxide (In2O3).

In2O3 is a well-known transparent conducting oxide (TCO) with a wide bandgap ( ⩾ 3.3 eV), high transmittance ( &gt; 90%), low resistivity (0.1-1 m Ω cm) and high carrier concentration (10 18 -10 20 cm -3 ). Recently, with the demand for high current level on-current and mobility in a few-nanometers thick channel, indium-based oxide semiconducting materials have received additional attention. A more detailed discussion of this is provided in section 3. In this part, we would first like to focus on the precursor and reactants. Many studies have been published In ALD based oxide semiconductor TFTs, including In2O3, because of their superior electrical performance. Various indium precursors and oxidants have been employed to achieve In2O3 thin films, as listed in table 2. Interestingly, the film properties have varied depending on the precursor structure and oxidants.

First, we compared the ALD behavior for various precursor structures using identical kinds of reactants from the table. Film properties such as growth temperature and crystallinity were similar when ozone was used as an oxidant and TMIn [111] and TEIn [113] as precursors. However, those of In(acac)3 [119], InCp [116], InCA-1 [113], DADI [113] were all different. Differences in ligand structures, and the bulkiness and viscosity of the precursors are the main variables influencing growth per cycle (GPC), and they can have a clear influence on film properties. Maeng et al reported such precursor dependencies using InCA-1, DADI, TEIn and ozone as a coreactant [113]. This comparative study revealed that TEIn, a precursor that is highly reactive with ozone, tended to have a moderate GPC (0.6 Å/cycle; while InCA-1 and DADI had 0.8 and 0.5 Å/cycle, respectively) but enhanced electrical performances, such as Hall mobility (48.7 cm 2 V -1 s -1 ; while InCA-1 and DADI had 8.6 and 29.2 cm 2 V -1 s -1 , respectively). This indicates the importance of precursor selection, especially for channel deposition.

Secondly, the influences of oxidants on film properties could be deduced from two studies of TMION by Hong et al using plasma [60], and Lee et al using H2O [42]. The former study exhibited about five-times higher GPC and Hall mobility than the latter case, which could be attributed to the higher oxidizing power of the plasma sources and the subsequent formation of a dense InO x thin film. Meanwhile, some researchers reported a more developed GPC could be obtained by combining two different oxidants. Libera et al revealed that InCp had a low growth rate of 0-0.15 Å/cycle when O2 or H2O were used individually as oxidants, while InCp had a highly enhanced growth rate of 1.0-1.6 Å/cycle when both were used in combination [114]. Interestingly, the order of oxidant exposure also influenced the growth rate. GPC was much higher when H2O exposure was followed by O2 exposure (called WO) than when O2 exposure was followed by H2O exposure (called OW). The origin of the differences between WO and OW were analyzed using in-situ quadrupole mass spectrometry (QMS) and quartz crystal microbalance (QCM) measurements. QCM and QMS data was measured during the 60-70 ALD cycle for InCp and each reactant pair, and the collected data revealed the In2O3 ALD sequence. Firstly, the Cp ligand is released after the precursor I exposed on the surface: this is the chemisorption step for InCp. Secondly, when H2O is exposed to the chemisorbed precursor, the remaining ligand groups are released, and reactive sites ( -OH) are generated. However, indium still has a low oxidation state (In + 1 ) for constructing an In2O3 (In + 3 ) phase. Finally, O2 exposure leads to the oxidization of indium (In + 1 to In + 3 ). This sequential process of the reactant pair (WO) resulted in a highly developed GPC. A similar result was observed by Kobayashi

Table 2. ALD processes reported for indium oxide . The table includes the precursor and reactant information, ALD growth temperature, growth per cycle, impurity level, band gap, a crystallinity, Hall mobility and TFT mobility.

Growth

TFT mobility

Hall mobility

Band gap temperature

1

-

1

-

2

1

-

1

-

2

◦

b

| [110] [111] [112] [113] [114] [115]                | References [116] [117]                               | [118] [119] [120] [113] [121] [122] [123]                                         | [113] [124] [60] [42]                               | [60] [48] [125]                        |
|----------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|
| N/S N/S N/D N/D N/S 7.8                            | (cm V N/S 20.4                                       | N/S N/S N/S N/S N/S N/S N/S 39.2                                                  | N/S N/S N/S 6.1                                     | N/S 0.2-34.4 10.9-17.5                 |
| 63-72 84 12-50 4.0-48.7 38-111 N/S                 | (cm V s N/S N/S                                      | N/S N/S N/S 1.1-66 0.3-8.6 0.5-24 2.2-20.2 11.0-20.2                              | 8.2-29.2 13.1 8.0 e 200 ◦ C 1.0                     | 3.2 e 3.1-33.1 11.3-17.3               |
| ⩾ 200 ◦ C &gt; 200 ◦ C &gt; 140 ◦ C ⩾ 170 ◦ C            | Crystallinity Cubic at 275 ◦ C Amorphous             | &gt; 100 ◦ C ⩾ 175 ◦ C Amorphous ⩾ 200 ◦ C ⩾ 200 ◦ C ⩾ 200 ◦ C ⩾ 200 ◦ C e Amorphous | ⩾ 200 ◦ C Rhombohedral &lt; ◦ C                        | Cubic ⩾ 200 Cubic Cubic                |
| Cubic N/S Cubic Cubic Cubic Cubic                  |                                                      | Cubic Cubic Cubic Cubic Cubic Cubic                                               | Cubic Cubic Cubic                                   | Cubic                                  |
| N/S N/S 3.6 3.8-4.4 N/S C 1.1-6.9 3.4-3.8 ◦ C ◦ C  | Impurity (%) (eV) N/S N/S                            | 3.6 N/S N/S 3.7 3.9-4.5 200 ◦ C 3.8-4.1 4.0 e C 2.5-3.9 3.5-3.6 ◦ C Si 1.6-3.4    | 3.8-4.5 3.6 3.5 e 150 ◦ C N/S 3.2 e 3.4-3.5 3.4-3.5 | N/D N/D N/D                            |
| 0.23-0.27 0.39 0.41-0.54 0.6-0.8 1.0-1.6 1.4-1.5 C | GP (Å/cycle) N/S N/S C 1.5 N/D N/S ⩽ N/S C 1.3-1.8 &lt; | N/S N/S N/D N/D C N/S ⩽                                                           | N/D C N/D C                                         |                                        |
|                                                    | 1.3-2.0 1.8-2.1                                      | 0.14 0.20 0.12 0.1-0.8 0.8-1.0 0.7 0.7 1.45                                       | 0.3-0.8 0.6 0.8 0.18-0.35                           | 0.75 1.2 1.0-1.1                       |
|                                                    |                                                      |                                                                                   |                                                     | 100-250 100-250                        |
| 400-500 200-251 100-200 50-250 100-250 160-200     | ( C) 200-450 150-200                                 | 100-400 165-200 165-225 150-300 50-250 175-275 150-200 100-250                    | 50-250 &gt; 275 100-250 100-250                        | 35-300                                 |
| H2O H2O Ozone Ozone H2O/O2 H2O2                    | Reactant H2O/ozone                                   | Ar/O2 plasma Ar/O2 plasma                                                         | Ar/O2 plasma                                        | Ar/O2 plasma Ar/O2 plasma Ar/O2 plasma |
|                                                    | Ozone                                                | H2O Ozone H2O Ozone H2O H2O2                                                      | Ozone H2O H2O                                       |                                        |
| InCl3 TMIn                                         | Precursor TEIn InCp                                  | In(tmhd)3 In(acac)3 Me2In(edpa)                                                   | DADI                                                | DMION DATI                             |
| Indium oxide                                       | In-EtCp                                              | InCA-1                                                                            |                                                     |                                        |
|                                                    |                                                      |                                                                                   | TMION                                               |                                        |

a Presented film properties and GPC in table is extracted from the references. b Precursor names represent the chemicals as follows: indium (II) chloride (InCl), trimethylindium (TMIn), triethylindium (TEIn), indium (I) cyclopentadienyl (InCp), ethylcyclopentadienyl indium (InEtCp), tris(2,2,6,6,-tetramethyl-3,5-heptanedionato)indium (In(tmhd)3), indium (III) acetylacetonate (In(acac)3), dimethyl(N-ethoxy2,2-dimethylcarboxylicpropanamide)indium (Me2In(edpa)), bis(trimethylsilyl)amidodiethyl indium (InCA-1), (3-dimethylaminopropyl)dimethylindium (DADI), trimethyl[N -(tert-butyl)-N , N -dimethylethane-1,2-diamine]indium (TMION), dimethyl[N -(tert-butyl)-N , 1 2 2 1 2 N 2 -dimethylethane-1,2-diamine]indium (DMION), [dimethylbutyamino]trimethylindium (DATI). c N/D: Not detected (in the reference). d N/S: No report (No data).

e Not shown in the reference, evaluated by the authors of this manuscript.

Figure 5. Description of ALD benefit 3: Representative studies on how chemicals influence the properties of ALD oxide semiconductors. (a) Precursor selection in a multi-component system by studying precursor pairing in IGO-TFT. Reprinted with permission from [60]. Copyright (2021) American Chemical Society. (b) Reactant selection in oxide semiconductor based on a study of how tin oxide phases varied depending on oxidants. Reprinted with permission from [128]. Copyright (2018) American Chemical Society.

<!-- image -->

et al using In-EtCp as a precursor [117]. The different roles of the two oxidants led to improved results, in that H2O releases ligands or byproducts from the surface and O2 oxidizes the indium. Mane et al also reported the importance of reactants in a study of ALD-In2O3 using TMIn with various reactants [112]. These studies imply that the oxidizing power of the precursor is important, but the generated byproducts are also important because they may degrade performance depending on the oxidant used.

2.3.2. Importance of precursor chemical reaction in a multi-component oxide semiconductor. Figure 5(a) shows a study of IGO-TFT with paired indium and gallium precursors by Hong et al [60]. In the study, two different precursor pairings were compared: the first pair were structurally identical precursors, In(CH3)3[CH3OCH2CH2NHtBu] (TMION) and Ga(CH3)3[CH3-OCH2CH2NHtBu]) (TMGON), referred to as TM-IGO, and the second pair had structurally different precursors, (CH3)2In(CH2)3N(CH3)2 (DADI) and (CH3)3Ga (TMGa), which are referred to as DT-IGO. With the DT-IGO, increasing discrepancies appeared between the experimental GPC of the IGO and the calculated GPC of IGO, from the GPCofeachbilayer (In2O3 and Ga2O3) and between the metal ratios as the number of IGO super-cycles increased. In contrast, with TM-IGO the discrepancies did not increase. The DT-IGO TFT exhibited a larger number of oxygen defects, which resulted in a negative position of V TH even at a similar metal ratio to TM-IGO ( -5.5 V in TM-IGO and -9.7 V in DT-IGO). Also, depending on the precursor pair (TM-IGO

and DT-IGO), the shift in electrical properties, such as V TH, µ FE, and SS, as a function of the InO x sub-cycles were different. This was attributed to differences in the crystal structure, grain boundaries, metal/oxygen ratio, and oxygen bonding states. This clearly indicates that the continuous change in surface-chemistry significantly influenced to the deposition process of the multi-component system, which resulted in varied film/device properties. This effect can be minimized when the proper precursor pairs are selected. Sheng et al reported another study which revealed the importance of precursor chemistry in multi-component oxide semiconductors [129]. In the study, IGO film deposition was carried out using DADI and TMGa with H2O2 as a reactant. Using TMGa and H2O2, a Ga2O3 binary system could not be fabricated. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations revealed that this was because TMGawaschemisorbedontheIn-O surface, since the energy x barrier to chemisorption on Si-O x was too high. A similar study was presented by Kim et al [69]. These authors reported that the incubation cycles ( ∼ 30 cycles) of DEZ on a Si surface decreased and exhibited no incubation cycles on SnO2 substrates. This resulted from the strong oxidizing power of SiO2, which led them to inject ozone to oxidize both the adsorbed Zn precursor and the bare Si substrate. Based on this behavior, the required ozone feeding time was decreased from 4.5 s to 0.25 s for the ZTO film depositions.

Precursor selection is also important in terms of doping efficiency for multi-component systems. Lee et al suggested more controlled Al doping could be achieved when dimethylaluminum isopropoxide (DMAI) was selected rather

than TMA for IAO deposition [64]. Using DFT calculations, they suggested two reasons for this: (a) the smaller molecular size of TMA leads to higher Al coverage on the surface and hinders the deposition of the next indium molecules, and (b) highly reactive TMA could take In from the surface like an etching process, while less reactive DMAI could not. For these reasons, by using DMAI precursors, Al content could be precisely controlled even at the sub-nanometer scale.

2.3.3. Importance of the other variants in chemical reaction in the oxide semiconductor. Figure 5(b) presents a study of ALD-SnO x using N,N -′ tert -butyl-1,1dimethylethylenediamine stannylene(II) precursor and two different reactants, H2O and O3, by Lee et al [128]. The ALD behaviors of SnO using H2O and SnO2 using O3 as reactants were studied. Interestingly, both the fabricated film properties and phases were different, and different GPC and film growth temperatures were observed as well. Unlike the O3-deposited SnO2, which had a wide ALD window of 80 ◦ C-250 ◦ C with a GPC of about 1.2 Å/cycle, H2O-deposited SnO had a narrow ALD window, below 150 ◦ C, and GPC decreased with increasing growth temperature. This was attributed to the drop in H2O adsorption rate when the growth temperature increased, which was confirmed by DFT calculations. Also, the combination of two different oxidants can enhance ALD growth behavior and film properties.

Various process conditions also had an influence on the fabricated film properties. Lee et al reported a case study on how In2O3 growth depended on the growth temperature [42]. It is well known that the thermally stable crystal structure of In2O3 is a cubic bixbyite structure, while the rhombohedral structure is a metastable phase. However, the authors of the study suggested that a rhombohedral In2O3 structure was fabricated at temperatures below 150 ◦ C due to the low decomposition temperature and interface-related crystal growth. Growth temperature also influenced the metal-oxygen ratio and impurity levels. A vertical temperature-gradient ZnO-TFT was fabricated and evaluated by Che et al [50]. At 100 ◦ C, lower carrier concentrations and Hall mobility were revealed, compared to a ZnO film fabricated at 200 ◦ C. These authors deposited ZnO front-channels at 200 ◦ C and end on back-channels at 100 ◦ C, and the resulting TFT exhibited enhanced mobility and stability. This was attributed to the degraded crystallinity and equalized carrier concentration, induced by combining a ZnO film in temperature-gradient conditions. Process temperature also influences the fabrication of multi-component oxide semiconductors. Half-reactions of indium precursor on the Si-OH surface varied depending on the growth temperature, which influenced the reaction site (-OH) density of subsequent zinc precursors, as studied by Sheng et al [122]. This led to a discrepancy between the theoretical GPC and experimental GPC of IZO, and associated differences in mobility and stability depending on temperature. Dosing sequence and purge times can also be variables. Chen et al noted the importance of purge time on the electrical performances of ZnO TFTs [130]. In ZnO-TFTs, TFTs fabricated with purge times greater than 20 s exhibited higher stability than the lower purge time sets. This is because oxygen vacancies and impurities in ZnO gradually decreased with increasing purge time (5-30 s).

## 2.4. Insulator and interface engineering

Instability under gate bias temperature stress conditions is especially important in the display and semiconductor fields because this instability leads to non-uniformity in display products or malfunctions in memory devices. Hydrogen and oxygen species are important factors which determine instability and the electrical characteristics of oxide-based TFTs [131-136]. These species can be transferred from the insulator into the active layer during the device fabrication process, because the insulator (e.g., buffer layer, gate insulator, passivation layer, and interlayer dielectric) deposited by conventional CVD process has a fairly large amount of hydrogen or oxygen [137, 138]. However, because the ALD process can control single atomic layers, it is relatively easy to control the amount of hydrogen or oxygen species in the insulator via process parameters [139]. In addition, ALD allows the fabrication of functional insulation materials because it gives us the freedom of an in-situ process for depositing two different insulation materials. In this paragraph, we discuss the advantages of ALD-derived insulation materials and the relationship between the insulator deposition process and the instability characteristics of oxide-based TFTs.

2.4.1 . Functional insulators. Hydrogen is considered a source for n-type donors in oxide semiconductors because hydrogen has two types of donor-like states: interstitial hydrogen (Hi + ) bonded to an oxygen atom and substitutional hydrogen (HO + ) located at an oxygen vacancy [134, 140, 141]. In addition, hydrogen can exist as bi-stability acceptor-like centers, which can degrade device stability [134, 136]. Therefore, to ensure adequate electrical characteristics and the stability of the device it is important to prevent hydrogen from incorporating into the active layer.

Figure 6(a) shows functional gate insulators made using ALD-derived SiO2 and Al2O3 [76]. The hydrogen gas permeability of each material was determined using a constantvolume/variable pressure system (time-lag). The measured hydrogen permeability of SiO2 was higher than that of Al2O3 (SiO2: 4.46 × 10 -11 cm 3 cm/cm · Hg cm 2 · · s, Al2O3: 7.18 × 10 -12 cm 3 cm/cm · Hg cm 2 · · s). Based on this insight, an Al2O3/SiO2 stacked gate insulator was deposited using an ALD in-situ process on the active layer in a top-gate bottomcontact structure, to effectively prevent hydrogen incorporation into the active layer. The ability to prevent hydrogen incorporation was tested by annealing at 300 ◦ C for 12 h in a forming gas (90% N2 + 10% H2) ambient (hydrogen annealing, hereafter). The device with a SiO2 gate insulator revealed a negative V TH shift of -0.97 V and an increased SS of 0.07 V/decade after hydrogen annealing. However, the device with the Al2O3/SiO2 functional gate insulator showed negligible ∆ V TH and ∆ SS values of -0.15 V and 0.01 V/decade, respectively. These results mean that incorporated hydrogen species were blocked by the Al2O3 layer. To evaluate the

Figure 6. Description of ALD benefit 4: insulator and interface engineering. (a) Schematic of a functional gate insulator on the top-gate bottom-contact IGZO TFT to prevent hydrogen incorporation into the active layer. Exploiting the difference in hydrogen permeability of the Al2O3 and SiO2 materials, a functional gate insulator was fabricated using an Al2O3/SiO2 stack. The devices with conventional and functional gate insulators were evaluated for PBTS stability. © [2021] IEEE. Reprinted, with permission, from [76]. (b) A schematic of interface tailoring achieved by controlling gate insulator deposition conditions of the top-gate bottom-contact IZO TFT. The devices show completely different electrical characteristics depending on plasma power during the gate insulator deposition by PEALD. © [2022] IEEE. Reprinted, with permission, from [63].

<!-- image -->

effects of incorporated hydrogen on PBTS instability, these devices were stressed at a gate voltage of 30 V at a temperature of 60 ◦ C. The device with the SiO2 gate insulator showed an abnormal negative V TH shift of -2.80 V and an increased SS of 0.09 V/decade after the PBTS test, while the device with the Al2O3/SiO2 functional gate insulator showed a typical positive V TH shift of 2.32 V and no change in SS. Considering the hydrogen permeability of SiO2 and Al2O3, more hydrogen was included in the SiO2 gate insulator compared to the Al2O3/SiO2 functional gate insulator. Therefore, the abnormal behavior of the device with the SiO2 gate insulator resulted from hydrogen diffusion into the active layer, or hydrogen accumulation at the gate insulator interface.

The ability to prevent hydrogen incorporation using ALDderived functional insulators was also studied using a passivation layer. Lee et al reported chemical hydrogen trapping using chemical bonding modulation in the Al2O3 grown by ALD using H2O and O3 reactants [142]. The Al2O3 was used as a passivation layer in the bottom-gate top-contact structure. V TH negatively shifted more than -10 V after the H2Ogrown Al2O3 passivation layer was applied. This effect is related to the incorporation of -OH groups formed by the decomposition of the H2O reactant during the deposition process. In the device with an O3-grown Al2O3 passivation layer, oxygen radicals filled the oxygen vacancies during passivation layer deposition, leading to a positive V TH shift of about 6 V. In addition, after hydrogen plasma treatment, the device with the Al2O3 deposited using the H2O reactant lost its switching properties, while the device with the Al2O3 grown by O3 reactant showed no significant changes in electrical parameters. The cause of this effect was associated with the different chemical bonding states of carbon impurities, depending on reactant species. The main carbon bonding status of the H2O reactant-grown Al2O3 film was C-OH, whereas for the O3 reactant-grown Al2O3 film it was C-O. For the Al2O3 film grown using H2O reactants, hydrogen atoms were subtracted from the C-OH bonds after the hydrogen plasma treatment, resulting in hydrogen molecules diffusing into the bottom active layer. However, when hydrogen was incorporated into Al2O3 films deposited using the O3 reactant, it reacted with the C-O bond to form C-OH. A bi-layer Al2O3 consisting of Al2O3-O3/Al2O3-H2O was applied as a passivation layer to ensure appropriate electrical characteristics in the device. Compared to the O3-grown Al2O3 passivation layer,

the bi-layer Al2O3 showed improved SS and µ FE values. In addition, the device with the bi-layer Al2O3 passivation layer showed a slightly negative V TH shift of 0.3 V, even with the hydrogen plasma treatment.

2.4.2. Interface tailoring. Device instability is mainly affected by the gate insulator/active layer interface because the activation energy of charge trapping at the interface is relatively low. Because the gate insulator is deposited on the active layer in the top-gate bottom-contact structure, the interface between the gate insulator/active layer is easily altered by changing gate insulator deposition conditions. Figure 6(b) shows how the electrical characteristics of the IZO top-gate bottom-contact TFTs varied with different plasma reactants (O2 ∗ and N2O ) or plasma power during gate insulator depos-∗ ition by plasma enhanced atomic layer deposition (PEALD) [63]. The O2 plasma power was fixed at 100 W, while the N2O plasma power varied from 100 W to 200 W. The device with an O2 plasma reactant gate insulator lost its switching characteristics, while the N2O plasma reactant produced the active semiconducting layer during gate insulator deposition. V TH positively shifted from -12.39 ± 0.02 V to -0.30 ± 0.13 V as N2O plasma power increased from 100 W to 200 W during the gate insulator deposition. This result means that periodic N2Oplasmaexposure can suppress carrier concentration in the active layer, and the degree of carrier concentration changes with plasma power. In addition, the devices showed comparable SS values at N2O plasma powers of 100 W and 150 W during the gate insulator deposition, while the 200 W plasma power resulted in SS degradation (100 W: 0.34 ± 0.05 V/decade, 150 W: 0.23 ± 0.01 V/decade, 200 W: 0.40 ± 0.04 V/decade). Because the SS is closely related to the interface trap density between the gate insulator and active layer, this result implies that the oxygen-related defects at the interface can be controlled via periodic N2O plasma exposure power. The devices were stressed at a gate voltage of ± 20 V at a temperature of 60 ◦ C to evaluate how variation in the interface trap density between the gate insulator and the active layer affected the PBTS/NBTS instability. There was an abnormal V TH shift under PBTS/NBTS instability for the device with an N2O plasma power of 100 W during the gate insulator deposition. The abnormal V TH shift behavior could be induced by further carrier injection from the mid and/or back channel into the front channel. However, a reasonable trend was observed in devices with N2O plasma powers of 150 W and 200 W, and the degree of V TH shift corresponds to the SS value. It is evident that device instability was easily affected by the interface trap density.

In addition to plasma power, plasma exposure time during gate insulator deposition by the PEALD process is a key factor controlling the interface between the gate insulator and active layer and the hydrogen content in the gate insulator. Cho et al reported the effects of O2 plasma exposure time during gate insulator deposition on the electrical characteristics of an Al:ITZO top-gate bottom-contact TFTs [139]. The devices showed a positive V TH shift from -6.38 to 1.69 V and a decrease in mobility from 46.50 to 35.52 cm 2 V -1 s -1 as O2

plasma time increased from 0.3 s to 4.0 s during gate insulator deposition. Furthermore, the hysteresis was negligible for O2 plasma times of 0.3 s and 2.0 s, while it obviously increased at a plasma time of 4.0 s. Because the electron concentration is dependent on oxygen vacancies, this result implies that the oxygen vacancies decreased with increasing O2 plasma time. However, at 4.0 s the excess O2 plasma time degraded the interface quality between the gate insulator and active layer, leading to increased hysteresis voltage. The device stability dramatically changed with O2 plasma time during the PEALD gate insulator deposition. The devices showed a U-shaped negative to positive V TH shift for PBTS time with increasing O2 plasma time, bounded by the plasma exposure time of 2.0 s. The amount of hydrogen in the gate insulator increased with decreasing O2 plasma time. Therefore, the negative V TH shift in the short O2 plasma time originated from the hydrogen migration effect, from the gate insulator to the active layer, during the PBTS. The interface quality between the gate insulator and active layer degraded during the long O2 plasma time during gate insulator deposition. PBTS instability is caused by the electron-trapping mechanism, and the interface between the gate insulator and active layer acts as an electron-trapping center. For this reason, a more positive V TH shift after PBTS instability with O2 plasma time is associated with an increase in interface trap density.

## 3. Challenging issues in ALD-oxide semiconductor TFTs

Moore's law is a techno-economic concept that suggests it is possible to double the performance and capabilities of digital electronics approximately every 2 years, however the devices must be scaled down more and more to meet Moore's law [143]. The leap forward in device scale-down is achieved by minimizing device dimensions and high-density integration. The era of device dimensions beyond the 3 nm technology node has arrived. However, short-channel effects are an obstacle to further scaling device length dimensions with a high driving current. There are two ways to prevent short channel effects: (a) using a thinner channel and (b) modulating device structures with multiple channels in a limited space. These approaches are challenging in oxidebased TFTs because device performance generally rapidly decreases below a critical thickness, and advanced technology is necessary for 3D device structures. In addition to dimensional scale down, it will be necessary to realize oxidebased bi-polar devices (e.g., complementary metal-oxidesemiconductor (CMOS)) for high-density integration. However, this is not an easy task because of the lack of comparable p-type oxide semiconductor candidates for n-type TFTs. In this section, we describe how to overcome the challenging issues associated with oxide semiconductors.

## 3.1 . Device scaling down

Figure 7(a) shows a schematic of a scaled-down device and the goals of the specifications. A decrease in active channel

Figure 7 . Challenging issues 1: device scaling down. (a) Schematic of the scaled device and challenging specifications. (b) TEM images of Al2O3/IGZO (10 nm/3 nm) stacked film, summary of key electrical parameters of IGZO TFT with channel thickness, and device performance degradation factors of ultra-thin IGZO TFT. (c) high angle annular dark field (HAADF) -scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM) cross-sectional image with EDX elemental mapping, AFM measurements of In2O3 TFT, variations in on-current as a function of channel length and thickness, and comparison of on-current for In2O3 with other ultrathin semiconductors. Reprinted by permission from Springer Nature Customer Service Centre GmbH: Springer Nature, Nature Electronics [46], Copyright (2022).

<!-- image -->

layer thickness is challenging in oxide-based TFTs because the device performance degrades with channel thickness due to the decrease in the number of carriers. Many groups have investigated the limit of active layer thickness in oxide-based TFTs. The ALD process is essential for depositing ultra-thin films because the layer-by-layer self-limited growth mechanism provides smooth surfaces and film uniformity. Figure 7(b) presents a TEM image of the IGZO/Al2O3 interface region and summarizes the key electrical parameters of the IGZO TFTs, which varies from 3 to 7.5 nm [144]. As shown in the TEM

image, there is a clear interface between the IGZO/Al2O3 layers, and sub-nanometer thickness can be controlled by the ALD process.

The carrier scattering and accumulation thickness are important factors determining electrical characteristics in the thin channel layer. First, carrier scattering in the bulk and interface alongside the constant carrier concentration can increase the interface trap density. In addition, the increased interface trap density results in inefficient charge response, and even Fermi level pinning eventually leads to degraded

SS in the 3 nm thick IGZO TFT. Second, the accumulation thickness, calculated using Gauss's law and Poisson's equation, was 6.4 nm in this experiment. Compared to the 7.5 nm thick IGZO TFT, the µ FE was gradually degraded, decreasing the active layer thickness from 5 to 3 nm, because the channel could not fully form at the turn-on voltage.

As described, the performance of the 3 nm thick IGZO TFT degraded, while high µ FE and on-current were required with the sub-1 nm active layer thickness. Si et al successfully fabricated sub-1 nm thick In2O3 TFTs with high on-current using ALD [46]. Figure 7(c) shows the properties of scaled ALDIn2O3 TFTs. The HAADF-STEM with EDX mapping images and AFM measurement of the In2O3 TFTs revealed that control of the sub-nanometer In2O3 thickness can be achieved using ALD. The maximum drain current ( I D,max) exponentially reduced the In2O3 thickness from 0.8 to 0.5 nm due to quantum confinement of the band structure of the In2O3 film. Although below 1 nm the on-state performances rapidly degraded, they had I D,max values comparable to state-ofthe-art high-performance transistors with an ultrathin channel of 2D material and a doped In2O3 oxide semiconductor. In addition to the excellent electrical characteristics of the ultrathin In2O3 TFTs, it is important to determine why In2O3 is able to make sub-1 nm thick atomic layer thin transistors. For this purpose, a charge neutrality level (CNL) and trap neutral level (TNL) model were applied to explain the properties of the ultra-thin In2O3 film [44]. The CNL in bulk In2O3 was located about 0.4 eV above the conduction band edge ( E C), and as a consequence the thick In2O3 behaves like a conducting oxide. For this reason, the Fermi level is pinned above E C for the metal/In2O3 contact, leading to low contact resistance. Similar to CNL, the TNL at the In2O3/dielectric interface also aligns above E C in the thick In2O3. However, the TNL in In2O3 moves deeply below E C for thicknesses less than 1 nm. The controlled CNL and TNL alignment in the ultra-thin In2O3 can be understood in terms of the quantum confinement effect, like layer-dependent band structures in 2D van der Waals materials.

Starting with the excellent electrical properties of the scaled ALD-In2O3 TFTs, the same groups reported a quantitative amount of defects, stability, and different active layer material. Wang et al showed high-quality scaled ALD-In2O3 by C V -measurement in a MOS capacitor [145]. The interface and bulk traps in the MOS capacitor were calculated by G p / ω versus ω curves using T-CAD simulations of the C V -and G V -characteristics. The results indicated that high n-type doping concentration and subgap density of states attributed to the CNL alignment of the In2O3 material. Charnas et al have reported that V TH engineering via O2 plasma treatment improved the stability of the In2O3 TFTs [146]. The treated device showed a positive V TH shift and improved P/NBS stability compared to the untreated device. In addition to the In2O3 material, Zhang et al reported an ITO active channel layer with a channel thickness of 2.1 nm [66]. Combining studies of experiments and simulation, the Sn concentration was determined to act as an obstacle to electron transport through the conducting In2O3 pathway. Therefore, having a proper Sn concentration is important because a high Sn concentration causes the degradation of device performance.

As described above, although extreme scaling of oxide semiconductors appears promising, further study is necessary to improve electrical characteristics and stability below the critical active layer thickness. In addition, contact resistance issues in the extremely scaled devices might be improved by proper methods, such as changing the S/D materials or employing a localized carrier doping process in the contact region of the active layer, to modulate the work function between the active layer and S/D electrode [19, 20, 147-149].

## 3.2. Device structure modulation

To suppress the short channel effects in a high-density device, the device architecture needs to be changed from planar to Fin-FET, GAA, CAA, or vertical structures, as shown in figure 8. Because these structures have a 3D channel, the conventional PVD process inevitably results in conformality and step coverage difficulties, and therefore an all-ALD process becomes necessary. As shown in figure 8(a), the Fin-FET is the preferred device structure beyond the 32 nm technology node because it offers better electrostatic control of the channel, compared to a planar structure [150]. However, to further scale the device, the GAA- (figure 8(b)) and CAA-FETs (figure 8(c)) are promising candidates to replace the Fin-FET because they offer better controllability of channels via a fully surrounding gate. The electrode etch process is an important factor for stable operation in the CAA-FETs. Chen et al have reported on the asymmetric characteristics of a CAA-IGZO FET. The CAA-IGZO FET was measured using a normal and reversed source/drain contact [30]. The normal source/drain contact has a great impact on device characteristics, such as the short channel effect and drain-induced barrier lowering. This is mainly caused by different etch processes for the source (bottom) and drain (top) electrodes, which does not affect a conventional planar structure.

Meanwhile, the vertical TFT has been actively investigated in an effort to reduce both short channel effects and the footprint of devices. As shown in figure 8(d), a vertical channel is formed at the sidewall of the spacer, and the spacer is especially important in the vertical TFT structure. The channel length can be defined by spacer thickness, which illustrates the ease of controlling the channel dimension without a special photolithography facility. However, the unavoidable poor roughness of the sidewall of the spacer or impurities due to the dry etch process during device fabrication, will degrade electrical characteristics. Lee et al have reported the electrical characteristics of vertical In2O3 TFTs while controlling the sidewall of the spacer [151]. To improve the electrical characteristics of the device, the sidewall of a spacer damaged by dry etching was coated with 3 nm thick SiO2. In addition, a high-resolution photolithography system was adopted for the steeper taper angle. Compared to the reference device, using high-resolution photography the SiO2-coated devices showed improved SS (0.25 → 0.12 V/decade) and µ sat (13.87 → 23.69 cm 2 V -1 s -1 ), respectively.

Figure 8. Challenging issues 2: device structure modulation. Schematic of (a) Fin-FET, (b) gate-all-around (GAA), (c) channel-all-around (CAA), and (d) vertical TFT.

<!-- image -->

As described above, the ALD-derived metal and insulator features are essential to the complex 3D structures of high-density devices, and the ALD process ensures excellent step coverage and conformality. The thin metal and insulator coatings can also passivate damaged films and contribute to improved contact resistance between the active layer and S/D electrode, and interface quality between the active layer and insulator.

of p-type oxide semiconductor-based TFTs are still on-going. Tin, copper, and nickel-based oxides are promising p-type materials that could theoretically exhibit high Hall mobility due to the relatively low formation energy of metal vacancies, and delocalized VBM from orbital hybridization. Recently, ALD-based p-type oxide semiconductors have been reported by several academic groups. Accordingly, we will introduce representative studies in copper-based and tin-based oxide semiconductors, respectively.

## 3.3. P-type oxide semiconductors

While oxide semiconductors have been intensively studied and have reached maturity, the development of 'p-type' oxide semiconductors is far behind. This is because of the inherent issues in the band structure of oxide semiconductors themselves, which make it difficult to realize comparable p-type electrical performance. Tortuous conduction path is prepared for hole carrier in valence band maximum (VBM) by highly localized and anisotropic oxygen orbitals [153]. Also, problems with hole carrier generation through the metal vacancies leads to inferior hole transport behavior, such as low mobility and high off-current.

However, with the steady demand for low-power consumption and higher levels of integration, CMOS inverter fabrication is desirable over unipolar devices [154-157]. Subsequently, studies to overcome the poor electrical performance

Figure 9(a) is a report on the effects of post-processing on the CuO x phase and electrical performances, by Maeng et al [158]. From 200 ◦ C to 500 ◦ C, the oxidation state of Cu is transformed (Cu2O to CuO), and crystallinity is enhanced over 400 ◦ C. This film transition influenced the TFT performance, as shown in figure 9(a). The optimized device was annealed at 300 ◦ C and showed high mobility (5.64 cm 2 V -1 s -1 ) and an on/off ratio of 1.79 × 10 5 . During the annealing process, nonstoichiometric defect states were largely compensated and improved electrical characteristics were observed. But, when the post-annealing process was increased to 400 ◦ C, a phase transition occurred from Cu2O to CuO, which led to subsequent defect creation and deterioration of mobility. Kwon et al also reported ALD-based copper oxides for the phasecontrolled deposition of CuO x (0 ⩽ x &lt; 1) and improved TFT performance [152]. These authors studied how the phase transition depends on the number of Cu deposition steps, using a Cu

Figure 9. Representative studies of ALD fabricated p-type oxide semiconductors. Phase transition depends on the fabrication process and electrical characteristics. (a) ALD-CuO x TFT evaluation ( µ FE = 5.6 cm 2 V s -1 ). Reprinted from [158], Copyright (2016), with permission from Elsevier. (b) ALD-SnO TFT evaluation ( µ FE = 6.0 cm 2 V s -1 ).

<!-- image -->

precursor and H2 plasma, with fixed oxidation cycles using ozone. With an increasing number of Cu deposition steps in 1 super-cycle, the fabricated CuO x film exhibited a transition from CuO (CuO0.9) to Cu2O (CuO0.6). This controlled cupric oxide phase exhibited highly varied film properties and electrical performances.

Napari et al demonstrated the importance of an Al2O3 passivation layer on a Cu2O TFT [159]. After fabrication of the ALDdeposited polycrystalline Cu2O channel based TFT with Al2O3 passivation, µ FE was still low but switching performances such as on/off ratio were greatly enhanced (30-5000). XPS and TEM analysis showed that a reduction in the CuO x back-channel region occurred and a 1-2 nm CuAlO2 layer was formed. Also, the high negative fixed charge density of the Al2O3 layer could relieve the electrons in the Cu2O channel. Those two effects directly influenced TFT performance and resulted in improved performances.

In tin-based oxide semiconductors, the phase transition is critical to device performance. SnO is a promising p-type material, while SnO2 is a super-conductive n-type material. Figure 9(b) shows a study of the two-step crystallization of

SnO and the interrelation between phase-control and the electrical performance of SnO-TFTs by Kim et al [160]. Highly c -axis aligned SnO was fabricated under optimized conditions by screening the growth temperature during ALD and the postannealing process (100 ◦ C and 300 ◦ C, respectively). Densification occurred in as-deposited to 300 ◦ C annealed films, and the following release of defects led to a high mobility (6.0 cm 2 V -1 s -1 ) and stability of the TFT. At an annealing temperature of over 400 ◦ C, a phase transition from SnO to SnO2 was revealed, and identical SnO-based TFTs exhibited ambipolar characteristics. This study indicates that controlled ALD process conditions, and high density and c -axis oriented SnO films, could be achieved, which are valuable results in the field of p-type oxide semiconductors. Improved electrical performance by defect engineering was reported by Kim et al [161]. SnO grown by ALD exhibited enhanced switching performances when growth temperature was optimized to 210 ◦ C. SnO crystallinity largely increased with the increase in growth temperature (150 ◦ C-210 ◦ C). A post annealing process (250 ◦ C) and Al2O3 passivation process led to enhanced defect density and carrier concentration near the back-channel

region and resulted in a very high on/off ratio (2 × 10 6 ) and subthreshold swing (1.8 V/decade).

Interface engineering is also effective approach for p-type oxide semiconductors. Jang et al reported that ALD deposited SnO TFT with an Al2O3 interface layer improved hysteresis from 4 V to 0.2 V [162]. This optimized hysteresis was extracted from an inverted staggered TFT with a 15 nm Al2O3 interfacial layer between the SnO channel and SiO2 gate insulator. Time-of-flight secondary ion mass spectrometry (TOF-SIMS) and DFT calculations revealed that the Al2O3 could successfully block Sn diffusion into SiO2 which caused the degraded hysteresis in the original TFT, by the creation of substitutional defects (Snsi). Although the field of p-type oxide semiconductors is still developing, those studies illustrate the future possibilities.

## 4. Outlook

Oxide semiconductors have received tremendous attention since the report of a-IGZO. Oxide semiconductors are currently being used in mass production by PVD deposition, because they provide multiple, advantages, including high electrical properties, large-area uniformity, and low process temperature. Furthermore, Si-based non-display fields have almost reached the limit of scaling down, and oxide semiconductors with very low off-currents are attracting more attention as a new material to break through this barrier. Their application in these non-display fields, and their ability to increase resolution in displays, require the deposition of oxide semiconductors with 3D structures and higher electrical properties. Therefore, beyond the conventional PVD deposition method, an ALD deposition method is emerging which provides advantages such as uniform 3D structures, thickness control at the nanometer-scale, the control of fine composition, and high-quality films with high electrical performance.

ALD based oxide semiconductors have attracted attention as active materials for TFTs, and the number of such studies has dramatically increased recently. In this review, the authors have explained the historical background of suggested the value of ALD for the development and application of oxide semiconductors, as follows.

- · In-situ composition control in vertical distribution: ALD enables the development of various oxide semiconductors through (a) composition control for multi-component oxide semiconductors and (b) gradient distribution of cation composition through cycle design. The metal cations constituting the multi-component oxide semiconductor can each play different roles (as carrier suppressors, carrier generators, and structure stabilizers), and their electrical properties are controlled by their distribution.
- · Vertical structure engineering: ALD is very suitable for designing vertical-channel structures with enhanced interface characteristics, because it enables nano-scale control and in-situ processing for dissimilar material deposition. Based on the ALD sequence, superlattice formation is possible, using nano-laminates of semiconductors and insulator,
- and dual channel modulation is possible by forming heterogeneous junctions between oxide semiconductors of different compositions.
- · Chemical reaction and film properties: Since the ALD method is based on a self-limiting chemical reaction, the precursor and reactant inevitably affect the characteristics of the thin film. Therefore, in ALD, it is important to select an appropriate precursor and a reactant, and different properties can be realized even with the same material.
- · Insulator and interface engineering: The interface between a semiconductor and insulator is closely correlated with electrical characteristics and reliability in oxide semiconductor based TFTs. ALD is an optimal process for improving the film quality of the interface between insulators and semiconductors and controlling the diffusion of impurities, such as hydrogen and carbon, in insulators. Furthermore, studies on the application of functional insulators and interface tailoring processes based on ALD are actively in progress.

Challenging issues remain that prevent the expansion of oxide semiconductors and their use in metaverse AR/VR, DRAM, 3D-NAND and logic. Recent studies have indicated that ALD is a valuable method for future applications in industry, as it provides exquisite control of thickness, stoichiometry, and phase. The scaling down of devices requires thinner active materials, down to sub-nanometer thicknesses. ALD-based indium oxide can be used to drive device thickness down to 1 nm, and it will be necessary to further research this method as an ultra-thin active layer for scaling down. The fabrication of 3D-structured devices such as GAA-TFT, CAA-TFT, and V-TFT is challenging, but will broaden the industrial applications of ALD oxide-semiconductors. When applied as an active layer in a 3D structure, they can increase the degree of integration, and monolithic 3D integration, by stacking TFTs in the vertical direction. Also, achieving noncomparable paired p-type oxide semiconductors is another task for the scalability of oxide semiconductors, which are basically n-type characteristics in CMOS inverters. The commercialization of ALD-oxide semiconductors is still on-going. Webelieve that the suggested benefits of ALD for oxide semiconductors will motivate efforts to address the remaining challenges in 3D-structured, very thin devices, CMOS inverters, and future applications.

## Acknowledgments

This research was supported by the National Research Foundation of Korea (NRF) funded by the Ministry of Science and ICT (NRF-2020M3H4A3081867), the industry technology R&amp;D program (20006400) funded by the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy (MOTIE, Korea), the project number 20010402 funded by the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy (MOTIE, Korea), the Industry Technology R&amp;D program (#20010371) funded by the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy (MOTIE, Republic of Korea), and the Technology Innovation Program (20017382) funded By the Ministry

of Trade, Industry and Energy (MOTIE, Korea). Hye-Mi Kim and Dong-Gyu Kim contributed equally to this work.

## ORCID iD

Jin-Seong Park  https://orcid.org/0000-0002-9070-5666

## References

- [1] Brotherton S D 2013 Introduction to Thin Film Transistors: Physics and Technology of TFTs (New York: Springer) pp 1-5
- [2] Kamiya T and Hosono H 2010 Material characteristics and applications of transparent amorphous oxide semiconductors NPG Asia Mater. 2 15-22
- [3] Nomura K, Ohta H, Takagi A, Kamiya T, Hirano M and Hosono H 2004 Room-temperature fabrication of transparent flexible thin-film transistors using amorphous oxide semiconductors Nature 432 488-92
- [4] Kamiya T, Nomura K and Hosono H 2009 Electronic structures above mobility edges in crystalline and amorphous In-Ga-Zn-O: percolation conduction examined by analytical model J. Disp. Technol. 5 462-7
- [5] Sheng J Z, Jeong H J, Han K L, Hong T and Park J S 2017 Review of recent advances in flexible oxide semiconductor thin-film transistors J. Inf. Disp. 18 159-72
- [6] Shiah Y S, Sim K, Shi Y H, Abe K, Ueda S, Sasase M, Kim J and Hosono H 2021 Mobility-stability trade-off in oxide thin-film transistors Nat. Electron. 4 800-7
- [7] Matsuda T, Umeda K, Kato Y, Nishimoto D, Furuta M and Kimura M 2017 Rare-metal-free high-performance Ga-Sn-O thin film transistor Sci. Rep. 7 44326
- [8] Park J S, Kim K, Park Y G, Mo Y G, Kim H D and Jeong J K 2009 Novel ZrInZnO thin-film transistor with excellent stability Adv. Mater. 21 329-33
- [9] Woo H and Jeon S 2017 Microsecond pulse I-V approach to understanding defects in high mobility bi-layer oxide semiconductor transistor Sci. Rep. 7 8235
- [10] Chong E, Chun Y S and Lee S Y 2011 Effect of trap density on the stability of SiInZnO thin-film transistor under temperature and bias-induced stress Electrochem. Solid-State Lett. 14 H96
- [11] Fan W T, Liu P T, Kuo P Y, Chang C M, Liu I H and Kuo Y 2021 Numerical analysis of oxygen-related defects in amorphous In-W-O nanosheet thin-film transistor Nanomaterials 11 3070
- [12] Chakraborty W, Ye H C, Grisafe B, Lightcap I and Datta S 2020 Low thermal budget ( &lt; 250 ◦ C) dual-gate amorphous indium tungsten oxide (IWO) thin-film transistor for monolithic 3D integration IEEE Trans. Electron Devices 67 5336-42
- [13] Yamazaki S, Koyama J, Yamamoto Y and Okamoto K 2012 Research, development, and application of crystalline oxide semiconductor SID Symp. Dig. Tech. Papers 43 183-6
- [14] Kim Y S, Lee W B, Oh H J, Hong T and Park J S 2022 Remarkable stability improvement with a high-performance PEALD-IZO/IGZO top-gate thin-film transistor via modulating dual-channel effects Adv. Mater. Interfaces 9 2200501
- [15] Kim C J, Park J, Kim S, Song I, Kim S, Park Y, Lee E, Anass B and Park J S 2009 Characteristics and cleaning of dry-etching-damaged layer of amorphous oxide thin-film transistor Electrochem. Solid-State Lett. 12 H95
- [16] Chung Y J, Kim U K, Hwang E S and Hwang C S 2014 Indium tin oxide/InGaZnO bilayer stacks for enhanced
- mobility and optical stability in amorphous oxide thin film transistors Appl. Phys. Lett. 105 013508
- [17] Kim S, Park J, Kim C, Song I, Kim S, Park S, Yin H X, Lee H I, Lee E and Park Y 2009 Source/drain formation of self-aligned top-gate amorphous GaInZnO thin-film transistors by NH3 plasma treatment IEEE Electron Device Lett. 30 374-6
- [18] Ko J B, Lee S H, Park K W and Park S H K 2019 Interface tailoring through the supply of optimized oxygen and hydrogen to semiconductors for highly stable top-gate-structured high-mobility oxide thin-film transistors RSC Adv. 9 36293-300
- [19] Du Ahn B, Shin H S, Kim H J, Park J S and Jeong J K 2008 Comparison of the effects of Ar and H2 plasmas on the performance of homojunctioned amorphous indium gallium zinc oxide thin film transistors Appl. Phys. Lett. 93 203506
- [20] Um J G and Jang J 2018 Heavily doped N-type a-IGZO by F plasma treatment and its thermal stability up to 600 ◦ C Appl. Phys. Lett. 112 162104
- [21] Jeong J K et al 2009 12.1-in. WXGA AMOLED display driven by InGaZnO thin-film transistors J. Soc. Inf. Disp. 17 95-100
- [22] Noh J Y, Han D M, Jeong W C, Kim J W and Cha S Y 2018 Development of 55' 4K UHD OLED TV employing the internal gate IC with high reliability and short channel IGZO TFTs J. Soc. Inf. Disp. 26 36-41
- [23] Han C-W et al 2014 Advanced technologies for UHD curved OLED TV J. Soc. Inf. Disp. 22 552-63
- [24] Park C I et al 2018 World's first large size 77-inch transparent flexible OLED display J. Soc. Inf. Disp. 26 287-95
- [25] Chang T K, Lin C W and Chang S 2019 39-3: invited paper : LTPO TFT Technology for AMOLEDs SID Symp. Dig. Tech. Papers 50 545-8
- [26] Lee S H 2016 Technology scaling challenges and opportunities of memory devices Proc. 2016 IEEE Int. Electron Devices Meeting (San Francisco, CA: IEEE) (https://doi.org/10.1109/IEDM.2016.7838026)
- [27] Li Y and Quader K N 2013 NAND flash memory: challenges and opportunities Computer 46 23-29
- [28] Yu B et al 2002 FinFET scaling to 10 nm gate length Digest. Int. Electron Devices Meeting (San Francisco, CA: IEEE) pp 251-4
- [29] Verhulst A S, Sorée B, Leonelli D, Vandenberghe W G and Groeseneken G 2010 Modeling the single-gate, double-gate, and gate-all-around tunnel field-effect transistor J. Appl. Phys. 107 024518
- [30] Chen Q et al 2022 Investigation of asymmetric characteristics of novel vertical channel-all-around (CAA) In-Ga-Zn-O field effect transistors IEEE Electron Device Lett. 43 894-7
- [31] Atsumi T et al 2012 DRAM using crystalline oxide semiconductor for access transistors and not requiring refresh for more than ten days Proc. 2012 4th IEEE Int. Memory Workshop (Milan: IEEE) pp 1-4
- [32] Tamura H, Kato K, Ishizu T, Uesugi W, Isobe A, Tsutsui N and Korpinen P 2014 Embedded SRAM and Cortex-M0 core using a 60-nm crystalline oxide semiconductor IEEE Micro 34 42-53
- [33] Onuki T et al 2017 Embedded memory and ARM Cortex-M0 core using 60-nm C -axis aligned crystalline indium-gallium-zinc oxide FET integrated with 65-nm Si CMOS IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits 52 925-32
- [34] Hwang E S, Kim J S, Jeon S M, Lee S J, Jang Y, Cho D Y and Hwang C S 2018 In2Ga2ZnO7 oxide semiconductor based charge trap device for NAND flash memory Nanotechnology 29 155203
- [35] Choi S, Kim B, Jeong J K and Song Y H 2019 A novel structure for improving erase performance of vertical

channel NAND flash with an indium-gallium-zinc-oxide channel IEEE Trans. Electron Devices 66 4739-44

- [36] Belmonte A et al 2020 Capacitor-less, long-retention ( &gt; 400s) DRAM cell paving the way towards low-power and high-density monolithic 3D DRAM Proc. 2020 IEEE Int. Electron Devices Meeting (San Francisco, CA: IEEE) (https://doi.org/

10.1109/IEDM13553.2020.9371900)

- [37] Kim M K, Kim I J and Lee J S 2021 CMOS-compatible ferroelectric NAND flash memory for high-density, low-power, and high-speed three-dimensional memory Sci. Adv. 7 eabe1341
- [38] George S M 2010 Atomic layer deposition: an overview Chem. Rev. 110 111-31
- [39] Johnson R W, Hultqvist A and Bent S F 2014 A brief review of atomic layer deposition: from fundamentals to applications Mater. Today 17 236-46
- [40] Raaijmakers I J 2011 (Invited) current and future applications of ALD in micro-electronics ECS Trans. 41 3-17
- [41] Park J S, Chae H, Chung H K and Lee S I 2011 Thin film encapsulation for flexible AM-OLED: a review Semicond. Sci. Technol. 26 034001
- [42] Lee J H, Sheng J Z, An H, Hong T, Kim H Y, Lee H, Seok J H, Park J W, Lim J H and Park J S 2020 Metastable rhombohedral phase transition of semiconducting indium oxide controlled by thermal atomic layer deposition Chem. Mater. 32 7397-403
- [43] Si M W, Lin Z H, Chen Z Z and Ye P D 2021 High-performance atomic-layer-deposited indium oxide 3D transistors and integrated circuits for monolithic 3D integration IEEE Trans. Electron Devices 68 6605-9
- [44] Si M W, Hu Y Q, Lin Z H, Sun X, Charnas A, Zheng D Q, Lyu X, Wang H Y, Cho K and Ye P D 2021 Why In2O3 can make 0.7 nm atomic layer thin transistors Nano Lett. 21 500-6
- [45] Zhang Z C et al 2022 A gate-all-around In2O3 nanoribbon FET with near 20 mA/ µ mdrain current IEEE Electron Device Lett. 43 1905-8
- [46] Si M W, Lin Z H, Chen Z Z, Sun X, Wang H Y and Ye P D 2022 Scaled indium oxide transistors fabricated using atomic layer deposition Nat. Electron. 5 164-70
- [47] Hong T, Kim K, Choi S H, Lee S H, Han K L, Lim J H and Park J S 2022 Structural, optical, and electrical properties of InO x thin films deposited by plasma-enhanced atomic layer deposition for flexible device applications ACS Appl. Electron. Mater. 4 3010-7
- [48] Choi S H, Hong T, Ryu S H and Park J S 2022 Plasma-enhanced atomic-layer-deposited indium oxide thin film using a DMION precursor within a wide process window Ceram. Int. 48 27807-14
- [49] Xiao D Q, Luo B B, Huang C M, Xiong W, Wu X H and Ding S J 2022 High performance (Vth ∼ 0 V, SS ∼ 69 mV/dec, IOn/IOff ∼ 10 10 ) thin-film transistors using ultrathin indium oxide channel and SiO2 passivation IEEE Trans. Electron Devices 69 3716-21
- [50] Che B W, Zhang H, Yang J, Qi J, Ding X W and Zhang J H 2020 Temperature gradient ZnO deposited via ALD for high-performance transistor applications IEEE J. Electron Devices Soc. 8 885-9
- [51] Lee J G and Lee H S 2021 A study on the effect of base-reactant in low-temperature atomic layer deposition of zinc oxide Phys. Status Solidi a 218 2100338
- [52] Anders J, Leedy K, Kazimierczuk M and Schuette M 2021 Interface control and electron transport in ALD ZnO/Al2O3 TFTs studied by gated Hall effect Semicond. Sci. Technol. 36 075005
- [53] Chen X, Wan J X, Wu H and Liu C 2020 ZnO bilayer thin film transistors using H2O and O3 as oxidants by atomic layer deposition Acta Mater. 185 204-10
- [54] Chen X, Wan J X, Gao J, Wu H and Liu C 2022 Enhanced negative bias illumination stability of ZnO thin film transistors by using a two-step oxidation method IEEE Trans. Electron Devices 69 2404-8
- [55] Zhao W P, Zhang N, Zhang X Y, Yao C, Zhang J F, Dong S R, Liu Y, Ye Z and Luo J K 2022 Improvement in instability of transparent ALD ZnO TFTs under negative bias illumination stress with SiO/AlO bilayer dielectric IEEE J. Electron Devices Soc. 10 927-32
- [56] Castillo-Saenz J R et al 2022 Bias-stress instabilities in low-temperature thin-film transistors made of Al2O3 and ZnO films deposited by PEALD Microelectron. Eng. 259 111788
- [57] Yang J, Bahrami A, Ding X W, Lehmann S, Kruse N, He S Y, Wang B W, Hantusch M and Nielsch K 2022 Characteristics of ALD-ZnO thin film transistor using H2O and H2O2 as oxygen sources Adv. Mater. Interfaces 9 2101953
- [58] Lu J Q, Wang W H, Liang J X, Lan J, Lin L Y, Zhou F C, Chen K, Zhang G B, Shen M and Li Y D 2022 Contact resistance reduction of low temperature atomic layer deposition ZnO thin film transistor using Ar plasma surface treatment IEEE Electron Device Lett. 43 890-3
- [59] Yang H J, Seul H J, Kim M J, Kim Y, Cho H C, Cho M H, Song Y H, Yang H and Jeong J K 2020 High-performance thin-film transistors with an atomic-layer-deposited indium gallium oxide channel: a cation combinatorial approach ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 12 52937-51
- [60] Hong T, Jeong H J, Lee H M, Choi S H, Lim J H and Park J S 2021 Significance of pairing In/Ga precursor structures on PEALD InGaO x thin-film transistor ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 13 28493-502
- [61] Hur J S, Kim M J, Yoon S H, Choi H, Park C K, Lee S H, Cho M H, Kuh B J and Jeong J K 2022 High-performance thin-film transistor with atomic layer deposition (ALD)-derived indium -gallium oxide channel for back-end-of-line compatible transistor applications: cation combinatorial approach ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 14 48857-67
- [62] Cho M H, Choi C H and Jeong J K 2022 Comparative study of atomic layer deposited indium-based oxide transistors with a Fermi energy level-engineered heterojunction structure channel through a cation combinatorial approach ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 14 18646-61
- [63] Kim D G, Yoo K S, Kim H M and Park J S 2022 Impact of N2O plasma reactant on PEALD-SiO2 insulator for remarkably reliable ALD-oxide semiconductor TFTs IEEE Trans. Electron Devices 69 3199-205
- [64] Lee S, Kim M, Mun G, Ko J, Yeom H I, Lee G H, Shong B and Park S H K 2021 Effects of al precursors on the characteristics of indium-aluminum oxide semiconductor grown by plasma-enhanced atomic layer deposition ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 13 40134-44
- [65] Lee W B, Jeong H J, Kim H M and Park J S 2022 Plasma-enhanced atomic layer deposition of aluminum-indium oxide thin films and associated device applications J. Vac. Sci. Technol. A 40 032402
- [66] Zhang Z C, Hu Y Q, Lin Z H, Si M W, Charnas A, Cho K and Ye P D 2022 Atomically thin indium-tin-oxide transistors enabled by atomic layer deposition IEEE Trans. Electron Devices 69 231-6
- [67] Tang Q, Chen X, Wan J X, Wu H and Liu C 2020 Influence of Ga doping on electrical performance and stability of ZnO thin-film transistors prepared by atomic layer deposition IEEE Trans. Electron Devices 67 3129-34

- [68] Allemang C R, Cho T H, Trejo O, Ravan S, Rodríguez R E, Dasgupta N P and Peterson R L 2020 High-performance zinc tin oxide TFTs with active layers deposited by atomic layer deposition Adv. Electron. Mater. 6 2000195
- [69] Kim J S, Jang Y, Kang S, Lee Y, Kim K, Kim W, Lee W and Hwang C S 2020 Substrate-dependent growth behavior of atomic-layer-deposited zinc oxide and zinc tin oxide thin films for thin-film transistor applications J. Phys. Chem. C 124 26780-92
- [70] Allemang C R, Cho T H, Dasgupta N P and Peterson R L 2022 Robustness of passivated ALD zinc tin oxide TFTs to aging and bias stress IEEE Trans. Electron Devices 69 6776-82
- [71] Jeong S G, Jeong H J, Choi W H, Kim K and Park J S 2020 Hydrogen impacts of PEALD InGaZnO TFTs using SiOx gate insulators deposited by PECVD and PEALD IEEE Trans. Electron Devices 67 4250-5
- [72] Ryoo H J, Seong N J, Choi K J and Yoon S M 2021 Implementation of oxide vertical channel TFTs with sub-150 nm channel length using atomic-layer deposited IGZO active and HfO2 gate insulator Nanotechnology 32 255201
- [73] Bae S H, Ryoo H J, Yang J H, Kim Y H, Hwang C S and Yoon S M 2021 Influence of reduction in effective channel length on device operations of In-Ga-Zn-O thin-film transistors with variations in channel compositions IEEE Trans. Electron Devices 68 6159-65
- [74] Moon S H, Bae S H, Kwon Y H, Seong N J, Yang J H, Kim Y H, Choi K J, Hwang C S and Yoon S M 2021 Combination of gate-stack process and cationic composition control for boosting the performance of thin-film transistors using In-Ga-Zn-O active channels prepared by atomic layer deposition ACS Appl. Electron. Mater. 3 4849-58
- [75] Kim D G, Ryu S H, Jeong H J and Park J S 2021 Facile and stable n + doping process via simultaneous ultraviolet and thermal energy for coplanar ALD-IGZO thin-film transistors ACS Appl. Electron. Mater. 3 3530-7
- [76] Choi W H et al 2021 The significance on structural modulation of buffer and gate insulator for ALD based InGaZnO TFT applications IEEE Trans. Electron Devices 68 6147-53
- [77] Cho M H, Choi C H, Seul H J, Cho H C and Jeong J K 2021 Achieving a low-voltage, high-mobility IGZO transistor through an ALD-derived bilayer channel and a hafnia-based gate dielectric stack ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 13 16628-40
- [78] Choi S N and Yoon S M 2021 Implementation of In-Ga-Zn-O thin-film transistors with vertical channel structures designed with atomic-layer deposition and silicon spacer steps Electron. Mater. Lett. 17 485-92
- [79] Ahn H M, Kwon Y H, Seong N J, Choi K J, Hwang C S and Yoon S M 2022 Impact of strategic approaches for improving the device performance of mesa-shaped nanoscale vertical-channel thin-film transistors using atomic-layer deposited In-Ga-Zn-O channel layers Electron. Mater. Lett. 18 294-303
- [80] Jeong H J, Kim Y S, Jeong S G and Park J S 2022 Impact of annealing temperature on atomic layer deposited In -Ga -Zn -O thin-film transistors ACS Appl. Electron. Mater. 4 1343-50
- [81] Büschges M I, Hoffmann R C, Regoutz A, Schlueter C and Schneider J J 2021 Atomic layer deposition of ternary indium/tin/aluminum oxide thin films, their characterization and transistor performance under illumination Chem. Eur. J. 27 9791-800
- [82] Büschges M I, Trouillet V and Schneider J J 2022 Electronic influence of ultrathin aluminum oxide on the transistor
- device performance of binary indium/tin oxide films J. Mater. Chem. C 10 5447-57
- [83] Lee D H, Kim D G, Kim M, Uhm S, Kim T, Kuh B and Park J S 2022 Developing subthreshold-swing limit of PEALD In-Sn-Ga-O transistor via atomic-scaled Sn control ACS Appl. Electron. Mater. 4 5608-16
- [84] Moon S H, Bae S H, Kwon Y H, Seong N J, Choi K J and Yoon S M 2022 Combination of InZnO/InGaZnO Bi-layered channels prepared by atomic layer deposition and ozone-based gate-stack formation for guaranteeing high field-effect mobility and long-term stability of thin film transistors Ceram. Int. 48 20905-13
- [85] Lee K H, Ok K C, Kim H and Park J S 2014 The influence of oxygen partial pressure on the performance and stability of Ge-doped InGaO thin film transistors Ceram. Int. 40 3215-20
- [86] Sheng J Z, Hong T, Lee H M, Kim K, Sasase M, Kim J, Hosono H and Park J S 2019 Amorphous IGZO TFT with high mobility of ∼ 70 cm /(V s) via vertical dimension 2 control using PEALD ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 11 40300-9
- [87] Ahn C H, Kim S H, Yun M G and Cho H K 2014 Design of step composition gradient thin film transistor channel layers grown by atomic layer deposition Appl. Phys. Lett. 105 223513
- [88] Nomura K, Kamiya T, Ohta H, Ueda K, Hirano M and Hosono H 2004 Carrier transport in transparent oxide semiconductor with intrinsic structural randomness probed using single-crystalline InGaO3(ZnO)5 films Appl. Phys. Lett. 85 1993-5
- [89] Sheng J Z, Hong T, Kang D, Yi Y, Lim J H and Park J S 2019 Design of InZnSnO semiconductor alloys synthesized by supercycle atomic layer deposition and their rollable applications ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 11 12683-92
- [90] Baek I H, Pyeon J J, Han S H, Lee G Y, Choi B J, Han J H, Chung T M, Hwang C S and Kim S K 2019 High-performance thin-film transistors of quaternary indium-zinc-tin oxide films grown by atomic layer deposition ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 11 14892-901
- [91] Lee J M, Lee H J, Pi J E, Yang J H, Lee J H, Ahn S D, Kang S Y and Moon J 2019 All-oxide thin-film transistors with channels of mixed InOx-ZnOy formed by plasma-enhanced atomic layer deposition process J. Vac. Sci. Technol. A 37 060910
- [92] Illiberi A, Scherpenborg R, Wu Y, Roozeboom F and Poodt P 2013 Spatial atmospheric atomic layer deposition of Al Zn1x x O ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 5 13124-8
- [93] Hsu C H et al 2021 High doping efficiency Al-doped ZnO films prepared by co-injection spatial atomic layer deposition J. Alloys Compd. 884 161025
- [94] Illiberi A, Cobb B, Sharma A, Grehl T, Brongersma H, Roozeboom F, Gelinck G and Poodt P 2015 Spatial atmospheric atomic layer deposition of In Ga Zn O for x y z thin film transistors ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 7 3671-5
- [95] Illiberi A et al 2018 Atmospheric plasma-enhanced spatial-ALD of InZnO for high mobility thin film transistors J. Vac. Sci. Technol. A 36 04F401
- [96] Chung Y J, Choi W J, Kang S G, Lee C W, Lee J O, Kong K J and Lee Y K 2014 A study on the influence of local doping in atomic layer deposited Al: ZnO thin film transistors J. Mater. Chem. C 2 9274-82
- [97] Zhao B, Tang L D, Wang B, Jia Y and Feng J H 2017 Photoelectric and passivation properties of atomic layer deposited gradient AZO thin film Superlattices Microstruct. 102 314-22
- [98] Kamiya T, Nomura K and Hosono H 2009 Origins of high mobility and low operation voltage of amorphous oxide

- TFTs: electronic structure, electron transport, defects and doping J. Disp. Technol. 5 468-83
- [99] Kamiya T, Nomura K and Hosono H 2010 Present status of amorphous In-Ga-Zn-O thin-film transistors Sci. Technol. Adv. Mater. 11 044305
- [100] Kim W G, Tak Y J, du Ahn B, Jung T S, Chung K B and Kim H J 2016 High-pressure gas activation for amorphous indium-gallium-zinc-oxide thin-film transistors at 100 ◦ C Sci. Rep. 6 23039
- [101] Jeong H J, Lee W B, Sheng J Z, Lim J H and Park J S 2022 Plasma-enhanced atomic-layer deposition of active layers of nanolaminated (InO )n(GaZnO )m for thin-film x y transistors J. Mater. Chem. C 20 7831-8
- [102] Ahn C H, Senthil K, Cho H K and Lee S Y 2013 Artificial semiconductor/insulator superlattice channel structure for high-performance oxide thin-film transistors Sci. Rep. 3 2737
- [103] Kim J et al 2020 Complementary hybrid semiconducting superlattices with multiple channels and mutual stabilization Nano Lett. 20 4864-71
- [104] Cho H, Song D, Kim Y, Kim B and Char K 2022 High-mobility field-effect transistor using 2-dimensional electron gas at the LaScO3/BaSnO3 interface ACS Appl. Electron. Mater. 4 356-66
- [105] Sharbati S, Gharibshahian I, Ebel T, Orouji A A and Franke W T 2021 Analytical model for two-dimensional electron gas charge density in recessed-gate GaN high-electron-mobility transistors J. Electron. Mater. 50 3923-9
- [106] Seul H J, Kim M J, Yang H J, Cho M H, Cho M H, Song W B and Jeong J K 2020 Atomic layer deposition process-enabled carrier mobility boosting in field-effect transistors through a nanoscale ZnO/IGO heterojunction ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 12 33887-98
- [107] Shi J L, Zhang J Y, Yang L, Qu M, Qi D C and Zhang K H L 2021 Wide bandgap oxide semiconductors: from materials physics to optoelectronic devices Adv. Mater. 33 2006230
- [108] Kim J, Bang J, Nakamura N and Hosono H 2019 Ultra-wide bandgap amorphous oxide semiconductors for NBIS-free thin-film transistors APL Mater. 7 022501
- [109] Bae S H, Moon S H, Kwon Y H, Seong N-J, Choi K J and Yoon S M 2022 Synergic strategies of composition-modified bilayer channel configuration and ozone-processed gate stacks for atomic-layer deposited In-Ga-Zn-O thin-film transistors J. Alloys Compd. 906 164283
- [110] Asikainen T, Ritala M and Leskelä M 1994 Growth of In2O3 thin films by atomic layer epitaxy J. Electrochem. Soc. 141 3210-3
- [111] Lee D J, Kwon J Y, Lee J I and Kim K B 2011 Self-limiting film growth of transparent conducting In2O3 by atomic layer deposition using trimethylindium and water vapor J. Phys. Chem. C 115 15384-9
- [112] Mane A U, Allen A J, Kanjolia R K and Elam J W 2016 Indium oxide thin films by atomic layer deposition using trimethylindium and ozone J. Phys. Chem. C 120 9874-83
- [113] Maeng W J, Choi D W, Park J and Park J S 2015 Indium oxide thin film prepared by low temperature atomic layer deposition using liquid precursors and ozone oxidant J. Alloys Compd. 649 216-21
- [114] Libera J A, Hryn J N and Elam J W 2011 Indium oxide atomic layer deposition facilitated by the synergy between oxygen and water Chem. Mater. 23 2150-8
- [115] Ma Q, Zheng H M, Shao Y, Zhu B, Liu W J, Ding S J and Zhang D W 2018 Atomic-layer-deposition of indium oxide nano-films for thin-film transistors Nanoscale Res. Lett. 13 4
- [116] Elam J W, Martinson A B F, Pellin M J and Hupp J T 2006 Atomic layer deposition of In2O3 using cyclopentadienyl indium: a new synthetic route to transparent conducting oxide films Chem. Mater. 18 3571-8
- [117] Kobayashi R, Nabatame T, Kurishima K, Onaya T, Ohi A, Ikeda N, Nagata T, Tsukagoshi K and Ogura A 2019 Characteristics of oxide TFT using carbon-doped In2O3 thin film fabricated by low-temperature ALD using ethylcyclopentadienyl indium (In-EtCp) and H2O &amp; O3 ECS Trans. 92 3-13
- [118] Ramachandran R K, Dendooven J, Poelman H and Detavernier C 2015 Low temperature atomic layer deposition of crystalline In2O3 films J. Phys. Chem. C 119 11786-91
- [119] Nilsen O, Balasundaraprabhu R, Monakhov E V, Muthukumarasamy N, Fjellvåg H and Svensson B G 2009 Thin films of In2O3 by atomic layer deposition using In(acac)3 Thin Solid Films 517 6320-2
- [120] Agbenyeke R E, Jung E A, Park B K, Chung T M, Kim C G and Han J H 2017 Thermal atomic layer deposition of In2O3 thin films using dimethyl ( N -ethoxy-2, 2-dimethylcarboxylicpropanamide)indium and H2O Appl. Surf. Sci. 419 758-63
- [121] Maeng W J, Choi D W, Chung K B, Koh W, Kim G Y, Choi S Y and Park J S 2014 Highly conducting, transparent, and flexible indium oxide thin film prepared by atomic layer deposition using a new liquid precursor Et2InN(SiMe3)2 ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 6 17481-8
- [122] Sheng J Z, Lee H J, Oh S and Park J S 2016 Flexible and high-performance amorphous indium zinc oxide thin-film transistor using low-temperature atomic layer deposition ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 8 33821-8
- [123] Yeom H I, Ko J B, Mun G and Park S H K 2016 High mobility polycrystalline indium oxide thin-film transistors by means of plasma-enhanced atomic layer deposition J. Mater. Chem. C 4 6873-80
- [124] Maeng W J, Choi D W, Park J and Park J S 2015 Atomic layer deposition of highly conductive indium oxide using a liquid precursor and water oxidant Ceram. Int. 41 10782-7
- [125] Choi S H, Jeong H J, Hong T, Na Y H, Park C K, Lim M Y, Jeong S H, Lim J H and Park J S 2021 Plasma-enhanced atomic layer deposited indium oxide film using a novel dimethylbutylamino-trimethylindium precursor for thin film transistors J. Vac. Sci. Technol. A 39 032406
- [126] Hwang C S 2014 Atomic Layer Deposition for Semiconductors (New York: Springer) pp 15-46
- [127] Kanjolia R K, Anthis J, Odedra R, Williams P and Heys P N 2008 Design and development of ALD precursors for microelectronics ECS Trans. 16 79-86
- [128] Lee J H, Yoo M, Kang D, Lee H M, Choi W H, Park J W, Yi Y, Kim H Y and Park J S 2018 Selective SnO x atomic layer deposition driven by oxygen reactants ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 10 33335-42
- [129] Sheng J Z, Park E J, Shong B and Park J S 2017 Atomic layer deposition of an indium gallium oxide thin film for thin-film transistor applications ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 9 23934-40
- [130] Chen X, Wan J X, Ji L W, Gao J, Wu H and Liu C 2022 Influence of precursor purge time on the performance of ZnO TFTs fabricated by atomic layer deposition Vacuum 200 111022
- [131] Janotti A and van de Walle C G 2005 Oxygen vacancies in ZnO Appl. Phys. Lett. 87 122102
- [132] Nahm H H, Kim Y S and Kim D H 2012 Instability of amorphous oxide semiconductors via carrier-mediated structural transition between disorder and peroxide state Phys. Status Solidi b 249 1277-81
- [133] Han W H, Oh Y J, Chang K J and Park J S 2015 Electronic structure of oxygen interstitial defects in amorphous

In-Ga-Zn-O semiconductors and implications for device behavior Phys. Rev. Appl. 3 044008

- [134] Kang Y, Ahn B D, Song J H, Mo Y G, Nahm H H, Han S and Jeong J K 2015 Hydrogen bistability as the origin of photo-bias-thermal instabilities in amorphous oxide semiconductors Adv. Electron. Mater. 1 1400006
- [135] Janotti A and van de Walle C G 2007 Native point defects in ZnO Phys. Rev. B 76 165202
- [136] On N, Kang Y, Song A, Ahn B D, Kim H D, Lim J H, Chung K B, Han S and Jeong J K 2017 Origin of electrical instabilities in self-aligned amorphous In-Ga-Zn-O thin-film transistors IEEE Trans. Electron Devices 64 4965-73
- [137] Toda T, Wang D P, Jiang J X, Hung M P and Furuta M 2014 Quantitative analysis of the effect of hydrogen diffusion from silicon oxide etch-stopper layer into amorphous In-Ga-Zn-O on thin-film transistor IEEE Trans. Electron Devices 61 3762-7
- [138] Kim H W, Kim E S, Park J S, Lim J H and Kim B S 2018 Influence of effective channel length in self-aligned coplanar amorphous-indium-gallium-zinc-oxide thin-film transistors with different annealing temperatures Appl. Phys. Lett. 113 022104
- [139] Cho S I, Ko J B, Lee S H, Kim J and Park S H K 2022 Remarkably stable high mobility self-aligned oxide TFT by investigating the effect of oxygen plasma time during PEALD of SiO2 gate insulator J. Alloys Compd. 893 162308
- [140] Bang J, Matsuishi S and Hosono H 2017 Hydrogen anion and subgap states in amorphous In-Ga-Zn-O thin films for TFT applications Appl. Phys. Lett. 110 232105
- [141] Nahm H H, Park C H and Kim Y S 2014 Bistability of hydrogen in ZnO: origin of doping limit and persistent photoconductivity Sci. Rep. 4 4124
- [142] Lee Y et al 2021 Hydrogen barriers based on chemical trapping using chemically modulated Al2O3 grown by atomic layer deposition for InGaZnO thin-film transistors ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 13 20349-60
- [143] Schaller R R 1997 Moore's law: past, present and future IEEE Spectr. 34 52-59
- [144] Jeong S G, Jeong H J and Park J S 2021 Low subthreshold swing and high performance of ultrathin PEALD InGaZnO thin-film transistors IEEE Trans. Electron Devices 68 1670-5
- [145] Wang Z H, Lin Z H, Si M W and Ye P D 2022 Characterization of interface and bulk traps in ultrathin atomic layer-deposited oxide semiconductor MOS capacitors with HfO2/In2O3 gate stack by C-V and conductance method Front. Mater. 9 850451
- [146] Charnas A, Si M W, Lin Z H and Ye P D 2022 Improved stability with atomic-layer-deposited encapsulation on atomic-layer In2O3 transistors by reliability characterization IEEE Trans. Electron Devices 69 5549-55
- [147] Choi J W, Park S H, Yu C G, Cho W J and Park J T 2019 Effects of electrode materials on the device performances and instabilities in amorphous InGaZnO thin film transistors Microelectron. Reliab. 100-1 113416
- [148] Tappertzhofen S 2022 Impact of electrode materials on the performance of amorphous IGZO thin-film transistors MRS Adv. 7 723-8
- [149] Hsu P C, Chen W C, Tsai Y T, Kung Y C, Chang C H, Hsu C J, Wu C C and Hsieh H H 2013 Fabrication of p-type SnO thin-film transistors by sputtering with practical metal electrodes Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 52 05DC07
- [150] Leung G, Lai L Z, Gupta P and Chui C O 2012 Device- and circuit-level variability caused by line edge roughness for sub-32-nm FinFET technologies IEEE Trans. Electron Devices 59 2057-63
- [151] Lee K H, Lee S H, Cho S J, Hwang C S and Park S H K 2022 Improving the electrical performance of vertical thin-film transistor by engineering its back-channel interface Microelectron. Eng. 253 111676
- [152] Kwon J D, Kwon S H, Jung T H, Nam K S, Chung K B, Kim D H and Park J S 2013 Controlled growth and properties of p-type cuprous oxide films by plasma-enhanced atomic layer deposition at low temperature Appl. Surf. Sci. 285 373-9
- [153] Wang Z W, Nayak P K, Caraveo-Frescas J A and Alshareef H N 2016 Recent developments in p-type oxide semiconductor materials and devices Adv. Mater. 28 3831-92
- [154] Jang Y H, Choi S C, Kim B, Bae J U and Park K S 2015 (Invited) integrated gate driver circuits using a-Si TFT and oxide TFT ECS Trans. 67 61-72
- [155] Nomura K 2021 Recent progress of oxide-TFT-based inverter technology J. Inf. Disp. 22 211-29
- [156] Radamson H H et al 2019 Miniaturization of CMOS Micromachines 10 293
- [157] Shang Z W, Hsu H H, Zheng Z W and Cheng C H 2019 Progress and challenges in p-type oxide-based thin film transistors Nanotechnol. Rev. 8 422-43
- [158] Maeng W, Lee S H, Kwon J D, Park J and Park J S 2016 Atomic layer deposited p-type copper oxide thin films and the associated thin film transistor properties Ceram. Int. 42 5517-22
- [159] Napari M et al 2021 Role of ALD Al2O3 surface passivation on the performance of p-type Cu2O thin film transistors ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 13 4156-64
- [160] Kim H M, Choi S H, Jeong H J, Lee J H, Kim J and Park J S 2021 Highly dense and stable p-type thin-film transistor based on atomic layer deposition SnO fabricated by two-step crystallization ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 13 30818-25
- [161] Kim S H, Baek I H, Kim D H, Pyeon J J, Chung T M, Baek S H, Kim J S, Han J H and Kim S K 2017 Fabrication of high-performance p-type thin film transistors using atomic-layer-deposited SnO films J. Mater. Chem. C 5 3139-45
- [162] Jang Y, Yeu I W, Kim J S, Han J H, Choi J H and Hwang C S 2019 Reduction of the hysteresis voltage in atomic-layer-deposited p-type SnO thin-film transistors by adopting an Al2O3 interfacial layer Adv. Electron. Mater. 5 1900371