<!-- image -->

Contents lists available at ScienceDirect

## Materials Today Sustainability

j o urnal homepage: https://www.journals.elsevier.com/ materials-today-sustainability

## A review on semiconductor photocathode in bioelectrochemical systems: Mechanism, limitation, and environmental application

S. Rahman a , N.J. Al Balushi a , J.K. Nayak a , A. Al-Mamun a, * , M. Al-Abri b, c , M. Al Alawi a ,

A. Sana

a

- a Department of Civil and Architectural Engineering, Sultan Qaboos University, P.O. Box 33, Al-Khoud 123, Muscat, Sultanate of Oman
- b Department of Petroleum and Chemical Engineering, Sultan Qaboos University, P.O. Box 33, Al-Khoud 123, Muscat, Sultanate of Oman
- c Nanotechnology Research Center, Sultan Qaboos University, P.O. Box 17, Al-Khoud 123, Muscat, Sultanate of Oman

## a r t i c l e i n f o

## a b s t r a c t

Article history: Received 2 October 2022 Received in revised form 23 January 2023 Accepted 3 February 2023 Available online 11 February 2023

Keywords:

Bio-electrochemical system Semiconductor Photocatalyst Cathode modi /uniFB01 cation Visible light

Bio-electrochemical system (BES), a promising green treatment and resource recovery technique, suffers mainly from the cathodic limitation toward practical application. An emerging way to avoid this limitation is to apply novel or semiconductor catalysts on the cathode. Semiconductor photocatalysts are very promising that can combine the photoexcited and bio-generated electrons in BES. The possibilities of photocatalysts (bio and abiotic) for BES anode and cathode were jointly discussed in several review articles. However, comprehensive discussion on the semiconductor photocatalysts for BES cathodic application is limited. Therefore, this review aimed to explore the semiconductor photocatalysts for cathodic improvement in BES. An in-depth examination on their selection criteria, technical factors for catalyst layer fabrication, and photocathodic reactions under visible light spectrum are highlighted. The review found that photocathodic reactions in BES were promisingly applied for (i) oxygen evolution and reduction, (ii) hydrogen evolution, and (iii) pollutant removal. However, there is a lack of studies on the recently developed visible light heterojunctions/composites for the cathodic enhancement in BES. Tunable bandgap with highly ef /uniFB01 cient semiconductors should be considered for Type II and z-scheme heterojunctions preparation. Graphitic carbon nitride, bismuth oxi-halides, and earth-abundant metalbased oxides are the new generation photocatalyst choices for BES cathode. Bio-electrochemical desalination using semiconductor photocatalyst cathodes is still an unexplored /uniFB01 eld. Emphasis should be given more on ef /uniFB01 cient cathode catalyst layer preparation for better interactions among the electrolyte, light, and electron acceptors. Highly ef /uniFB01 cient photocatalytic air cathode can be a promising step toward a self-sustaining BES for a future solution.

© 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

## 1. Introduction

The greenhouse gas (GHG) emission by anthropogenic processes is escalating the global temperature very fast. The last Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report explained that CO2 (76%, ~38.5 Gt CO2eq/yr) and CH4 (16%, ~8 Gt CO2eq/yr) together are responsible for 92% of the global GHG release, which solely hinders the efforts to bring down the worldwide temperature increase under 2 /C14 C [1]. This frightening scenario is driving stakeholders to accelerate the implementation of renewables and alternatives to replace fossil fuel processes (renewable implementation will

increase to ~95% by 2026 than the present rate) [2]. Therefore, the emerging zero or reduced GHG emission methods (related to bioenergy, photocatalysis, etc.) are under intense investigation for the near future solution. Besides, photo-assisted, zero-emission biological processes have received signi /uniFB01 cant research attention in recent times to replace energy-intensive processes like-wastewater treatment [3,4], emerging pollutants removal [5,6] hydrogen and energy production [7,8], desalination [9], and so on. The concept of sustainable photon energy application, biological oxidation, and reduction has aligned the eco-friendly energy production (i.e. bioelectrochemical processes, photocatalytic fuel cells, etc.) while reducing the chemicals and energy-exhaustive operations.

The discovery of electron-producing microbes in 1911 widened the possibilities for using electron-producing bacteria in electrochemical systems [10]. However, in early 2000, the idea of chemical

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

mediator-less electron transport to the electrodes sparked interest in its use in the bio-electrochemical system (BES) [11]. The extracellular electron transfer mechanism in BES is a promising renewable method in which electron-producing bacteria (exoelectrogens) transfer electrons to electron-accepting species (commonly O2, electrotrophs, or any electro-reducible ions) [12 e 14].

This electron transfer in BES occurs based on the electrode's potential difference and the thermodynamic condition of the electrodes [15 e 17]. The electron-producing bacteria acclimated to the anode (which functions as an electrical bias) can consume the organic content of the electrolyte/wastewater and transform the chemical energy to electrical energy via metabolic respiration [12,18,19]. The bacteria-respired electrons (e /C0 ) travel from higher to lower potential electrodes to get reduced by cathodic electron acceptors, resulting in energy production at the outer circuit utilizing various external electrical loads or resistances [20 e 22]. Surprisingly, oxidized anodic ionic species (H þ , methanol, ethanol, etc.) could be converted to green electrical energy without any intermediate steps [23]. Therefore, BES has become a promising clean energy mechanism for pollution removal [24], energy production [25], desalination [26 e 28], value-added product recovery (bio H2, acid, base, etc.), and much more [29 e 34] due to the direct energy conversion in a microbe-assisted process. Fig. 1 shows the basic principles of BES and their signi /uniFB01 cant branches.

of renewable catalysts like bio cathode catalysts and photocatalysts are worth mentioning for their excellent catalytic ability and sustainable nature. A primary energy source is required to operate any treatment technique d which is expensive and limited. However, photocatalysis is powered by sunlight or any other forms of light. The degradation process is not constrained by energy limitation because sunlight is abundant and renewable. It is a low-cost ecofriendly mechanism for partial to complete pollutant degradation [38]. Degradation mechanisms for photocatalysis include interfacial oxidation and reduction. In contrast to other catalytic treatment processes, it is also independent of issues with temperature, pressure, and complicated steps [39]. In the case of photocatalysis, altering the catalyst's properties (by defect engineering) creates new opportunities to degrade a broader range of pollutants. Changing other treatment methods in this way is challenging [40]. In photocatalytic pollution remediation, heterogenous and homogenous photocatalysis are the two major processes to discuss. Photocatalysis involves a catalyst and a reaction medium where photon energy activates the catalyst. If both catalyst and medium are in the same state, i.e. liquid e liquid, then it's homogenous photocatalysis. However, the opposite is heterogenous photocatalysis. Semiconductor photocatalysis belongs to heterogenous photocatalysis because the reaction medium is typically liquid or gaseous, and semiconductors are typically solid [41 e 43].

Researchers have investigated different cathodic electron acceptors in BES to understand the reactions between transported electrons from the anode and electron acceptors. Electron acceptors can take the bio-respired electrons ef /uniFB01 ciently when a thermodynamically favorable condition occurs at the cathode. Oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) was considered the primary cathodic reaction in BES for a long time [35]. For other cathodic reactions like nitri /uniFB01 cation/de-nitri /uniFB01 cation, H2 production, removal reactions of toxic metals (S, Hg, Cr(VI), Cu, etc.), CO2 sequestration, and so on need ef /uniFB01 cient, durable, less toxic, high performing and new generation catalysts for safe catalytic reactions [36,37]. The application

Besides, photocatalysts are primarily divided into photosynthetic catalysts based on photorespiratory organisms (or biophotocatalyst) and semiconductor-based photocatalysts or photoelectro-catalysts. Photosynthetic organisms and bioelectrochemical processes are totally biological energy conversion methods. Using photorespiration at the cathode, this mechanism digests atmospheric or mixotrophic CO2 to produce clean byproducts like O2 [44,45]. Though photosynthetic BES is a promising approach for converting cathodic CO2 to useful byproducts, low solar-to-fuel ef /uniFB01 ciency, limited lifetime, enzyme immobilization, and performance optimization dif /uniFB01 culties render these processes dif /uniFB01 cult [46]. However, renewable energy conversion from BES-

Microbial Desalination Cell (MDC)

<!-- image -->

integrated semi-conductor photocatalysts is the next-generation solution that can minimize hazardous chemicals and energyintensive procedures [44,47]. A thin and ef /uniFB01 cient catalyst layer (CL) on the cathode can increase charge transfer in a pro /uniFB01 cient photon energy conversion pathway. At the same time, photoexcited ionized radicals can do disinfection/pollution removal with alternative biofuels/bioenergy production.

## 2. This review signi /uniFB01 cance

The combined /uniFB02 ow of the bio-generated and photogenerated electrons has the potential to overcome the cathodic limitations and enhance the electrochemical performance of the system. Aiming to achieve such bene /uniFB01 ts, several research studies applied the abiotic photocatalysts for individual or combined use of photoanode and photocathode in BES and integrate the photovoltaics/ photoelectrochemical cells with BES. Some recent review studies discussed the photo-assisted technology combined with microbial electrolysis cell (MEC) to optimize the process mechanisms for sustainable H2 production, the challenges, and scale-up strategies for light-assisted BES, the integration of photoanode and photocathode in BES and their challenges which are brie /uniFB02 y listed in Table 1. However, very limited reviews comprehensively discussed that possibilities, limitations, and applications of semiconductor photo-catalysts for the BES cathode. To effectively replace the conventional, expensive, environmentally hazardous catalysts, a thorough and in-depth review on the use of semiconductor photocatalysts for cathodic application is necessary to improve the cathodic limitations in BES. In the last decades, photocatalyst research focused mostly on ultraviolet (UV)-assisted photocathodes. The emergence of visible light semiconductors and their band gap engineering have shown promising ways of solving limitations of UV-responsive materials. The recently studied visible light semiconductor photocathodes for BES application were not reviewed and analyzed properly. This current review concentrates on the visible light-responsive semiconductor catalysts used in BES cathodic processes. Hence this comprehensive review aimed to (i) evaluate the possibility of semiconductor photocatalysts for enhancing cathodic limitations, (ii) disclose the selection criteria for effective catalysts, (iii) develop the engineering protocol for catalyst-coated electrode fabrication, (iv) explore the possible application of cathodic reactions for pollution remediation, hydrogen evolution reaction (HER), ORR, oxygen evolution reaction (OER), and (v) summarize the potential application for desalination under the visible light spectrum.

## 3. Improving cathodic limitation in BES

The operating voltage of any BES is the voltage that resulted from thermodynamic reactions (theoretical voltage from Nernst equation) after eliminating the overpotentials (voltage loss) caused by anode and cathode (Eq. (1))

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

The voltage loss due to overpotentials combines three different losses (Eq. (2)). Thermodynamically, BES accounts for higher cathodic loss (0.5 V) than bio anodic loss (0.1 V), which accounts for 0.6 V as the combined loss against the theoretical generated potential of 1.1 V [56]. The reactions at the cathode are more complicated, making them less favorable than the oxidation reactions at the anode side [57]. Cathodic loss can consist of three signi /uniFB01 cant losses mentioned in Eq. (2). Cathodic activation loss is the lost cathodic voltage to initiate the reduction reaction (RR) of oxidants. In contrast, the ohmic loss is the resistance during electron and proton/ion transport through fuel cell components (electrodes, outer circuits, etc.) or electrolytes [58,59]. The inadequate /uniFB02 ow of oxidant and accumulated product during the RR in the cathode chamber causes mass transport loss [60]. That is why cathodic overpotential can be dominated individually or combined by electrodes, inadequate electron acceptors, or con /uniFB01 guration [61]. Different catalysts were applied to the cathode to overcome such limitations. An estimation says that approximately 47% of the BES cost (laboratory-based) is needed on a platinum catalyst-based cathode to overcome the cathodic losses [62]. Therefore, overcoming the cathodic overpotential (or cathodic loss) and making a low-cost cathode catalyst is very important for BES to scale up [63].

Another essential component is the electron acceptors present in the cathodic electrolyte. BES technologies have opened up the opportunity for energy generation or pollution remediation by reducing different electron acceptors of toxic nature from wastewater streams or the atmosphere [36]. Selecting a suitable electron acceptor for cathodic reduction is crucial to controlling the cathodic overpotential. The high overpotential of electron acceptors can reduce the thermodynamically favorable condition for the smooth cathodic reaction [64]. Therefore, reducing electron acceptors on the cathode using bio-generated electrons from the anode could be hampered. However, oxygen is the most common and ideal electron acceptor used in BES. The natural abundance, high oxidation potential, good reactivity at neutral pH, and H2O as the /uniFB01 nal green product at the end of ORR make O2 the perfect electron acceptor in fuel cell research [65]. Catalytic oxygen reduction in the cathode follows mainly two pathways. Reducing O2 to stable H2O in a faster four e /C0 process is more advantageous than reduction to non-stable H2O2 in a two e /C0 process [66]. However, ORR is the limiting step in the cathode due to the low solubility of O2 and high activation barrier of O2 at the cathode [67]. The dif /uniFB01 culty of O2 to get direct

Table 1 Published review on semiconductor photocatalyst application in BES.

| Focus of Published Reviews                                                                                                                                         | Reference   |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|
| Semiconductor photoelectrodes for hydrogen evolution in photo-assisted BES                                                                                         | [48]        |
| Green hydrogen evolution in BES using recently developed TiO2 photocatalysts                                                                                       | [49]        |
| Comprehensive review on different photo-assisted microbial fuel cell technologies (biotic, abiotic, photovoltaics)                                                 | [50]        |
| Discussion on photo anodes and cathodes and their biohybrids for photoreduction of CO2 in microbial electrochemical system (MES) to extract value- added chemicals | [51]        |
| Reviewing photo-electrode BES, photoelectrocatalysis e BES hybrids, and photosynthetic BES for BES applications                                                    | [52]        |
| Recent advances of photo-assisted MESs (photo- electrode MES, photoelectrocatalysis e MES hybrids) for recalcitrant pollutants treatment                           | [53]        |
| Photo-electrode MES, photoelectrocatalysis e MES combination, and photosynthetic MES for wastewater treatment                                                      | [54]        |
| Review on CdS nanoparticle photocatalyst in BES for energy recovery and wastewater treatment                                                                       | [55]        |

contact with the cathode surface is another reason for sluggish ORR. Hence ef /uniFB01 cient catalysts or mediators are needed to improve this slow reaction kinetics. Improving the cathodic surface area (effective surface and pore size) can expose larger active sites for the electron acceptors. Enhanced RR also depends on the proper selection of electron acceptors with high redox potential, but it is a pH-dependent factor.

On the other hand, cathodic catalyst coating can lower the energy barrier for RR and thereby increase the kinetics. The most ef /uniFB01 cient O2 diffusion process in BES is the application of Pt-catalyst coated air cathode, where O2 enters through the gas diffusion layer (GDL) and contacts the CL for O2 reduction by a complex gas-liquid transfer process [68,69]. CL made of platinum (Pt) nanoparticle is the most ef /uniFB01 cient and studied state-of-the-art metallic catalyst for ef /uniFB01 cient ORR but expensive than carbon-based catalyst [70]. BES was also operated with Pt-coated cathode for reducing other electron acceptors like NO3 /C0 to N2 gas [71], proton (H þ ) to H2 gas [72], reducing metal ions (Al, Fe, and Pb) [73], etc.). However, Pt is prone to poisoning by corrosive ions and susceptible to pH increase [62]. Pt-group metal (PGM) catalysts can be replaced by PGM-free catalysts consisting of carbon-based materials (activated carbon, carbon black, etc.), carbon nanoparticles (graphene-based or graphene-like structure), carbon nanotubes, and heteroatom doped composites [74,75]. Although PGM-free catalysts can increase RR, toxic leaching, chemical stability and durability are critical barriers to overcome [60,74,76]. Hence the need for semiconductor-based photocatalysts and their nanocomposites comes in light due to their superior performance, excellent photo harvesting mechanism and sustainable nature.

## 4. Fundamentals of photocatalyst to improve cathodic performance

The application of semiconductor photocatalysts in fuel cell technology depends on the photocatalytic transfer of solar energy to electricity generation [77]. The photocatalytic reaction involves the photogenerated electrons e hole pair, free hydroxyl, and superoxides for various photo-assisted reactions [78]. The photocatalytic mechanism in BES has been brie /uniFB02 y illustrated in Fig. 2a. Semiconductor material can be said a photocatalyst when the material gets the ability to start the photocatalytic reaction using photon energy. An intrinsic (pristine) semiconductor material is such which owns two different energy positions (valence band (VB) and conduction band (CB)) for electrons to stay in a particular place. The energy difference in these band positions is called energy bandgap (Eg), which differs among semiconductor materials between 1 eV and 4 eV [79]. Here, Fermi level plays an important role. Fermi level (EF) is an energy level in the energy band (Eg) that signi /uniFB01 es the probability of the electrons' occupancy in VB or CB and determines electron movement between the bands. The intrinsic semiconductor materials pose thermodynamically favorable EF to transfer the available electrons from VB to CB. The electrons move from VB to CB only when the absorbed energy is more than the Eg. By Absorbing enough photonic energy from light (UV/visible light), the semiconductor electrons (negative charges, /C0 ve) from the VB get excited and transfer to the CB leaving the VB with highly oxidative holes (positive charges, þ ve). These generated electrons and holes are known as photoelectrons and holes (or photocarriers or charge carriers). The separated charge carriers are then transferred to the active sites at the surface of the photocatalyst. The oxidative holes help in forming highly reactive intermediates (like superoxides, hydroxyl radicals etc.), which are very strong and nonselective to remediate emerging pollutants [6,80,81]. Therefore, the newly arrived electrons in CB and positive hole pairs in VB are promisingly capable of doing reduction of electron donors and oxidation of electron acceptors respectively at the surface of semiconductor [82].

An effective practice to reduce high Eg in intrinsic material is to add donor impurities (called doping) [83 e 85]. Adding impurities makes the heterojunctions of the materials that share their unlocalized valence electrons by hybridizing band positions. Therefore, the internal electron transfer happens to the favorable CB position between adjoining semiconductors by lessening the Eg. Electrons can also be migrated from negative to less negative CB due to the difference in EF of adjoined semiconductors. This can be termed as internal bias because of the internal electron /uniFB02 ow which can happen even with or without light irradiation. Thus, the localized electrons start migrating by shifting the EF, making these composites as extrinsic semiconductors or n/p type semiconductors by making them negatively charged (electron abundance) or positively charged (holes abundance). To improve electron transfer property in semiconductors, this type of band alignment by heterojunction (p-n, n-p, etc.) can be very effective for better photo electrocatalytic functionality of semiconductors [83]. The band alignment (type II/z-scheme) facilitates the charge separation by internal electron and hole separation from one semiconductor to another semiconductor in such a way that will provide the least possibility of recombination [86]. The alignment of heterojunctions can be prepared from p-p, n-n, and p-n type semiconductors in various synthesis routes based on their property targets [87]. In type II heterojunctions, charge separation is dif /uniFB01 cult. The z-scheme heterojunction thus bene /uniFB01 ts charge separation based on fermilevel equilibrium. There are three types of z-scheme photocatalysts: (i) traditional, (ii) all-solid-state (ASS), and (iii) direct zschemes. Traditional z-scheme refers to the transfer of charges between two photocatalysts in an aqueous medium by a pair of redox/mediators (acceptor/donor). The ASS z-scheme eliminates the need for a redox pair and medium. Instead, the transfer occurs via nanoconductors between the photocatalysts or directly on the connected surface without using nanoconductors. The direct zscheme is an interfacial charge transfer method that eliminates the need for conducting media. The inter-catalyst transport distance is reduced through this process for improved photocatalytic ef /uniFB01 -ciency via an internal electric /uniFB01 eld [88].

S-scheme heterojunctions can improve the outcome of type-II and z-scheme. The redox potential is lowered due to the accumulation of holes in VB and electrons in CB. These accumulations may also produce repulsive force among charge carriers (e /C0 to e /C0 or holes to holes). As a result, the lifetime of charge carriers and oxidative species is uncertain. The s-scheme heterojunction overcomes these constraints by generating an internal electric /uniFB01 eld that allows for stable redox potential. The provision of band edge bending for /uniFB01 xed e /C0 and holes in CB and VB ensures lifetime and stability [89]. Moniz et al. [90], Zhang and Jaroniec [83], and Wang et al. [91] provided an informative discussion on heterojunctions. The following Table 2 shows the heterojunction types that are usually found in the different literature.

Another limitation of photocatalysts is the low ef /uniFB01 ciency of harvesting visible light ( l : 400 nm e 700 nm, 40 e 43% of sunlight). The large energy band gap (Eg) of catalysts limits the absorption of lights with higher wavelengths (visible light) causing the absorption of UV light ( l &lt; 400 nm, 3 e 5% of sunlight) only [92,93]. Therefore, more studies were invested in /uniFB01 nding methods to prepare tunable low band gap visible light responsive composites for higher applicability of photocatalysts. Another good technique to reduce the band gap is to apply heat treatment or annealing or sintering to the target catalyst. Annealing with appropriate temperature changes the crystallinity of catalyst by changing their lattice points and bonding length. Therefore, the optimum annealing temperature can provide enough thermal energy to

<!-- image -->

(B) Reactions at catalyst layer

Table 2 Typically observed heterojunctions and their types.

| Heterojunctions Speci /uniFB01 c Types   | Heterojunctions Speci /uniFB01 c Types                                                    | Basic features                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
|------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Semi.-Semi.                              | p-n type semi. p-p type semi. n-n type semi.                                              | /C15 Based on band alignment, there are three types of heterojunctions between semi.-semi. - Type-I: CB of S1 is more -ve than S2, VB of S1 is more þ ve than S2. - Type-II: CB of S1 is more -ve than S2, VB of S1 is less þ ve than S2. - and Type-III: both CB and VB of S2 is less than S1. e /C0 and hole separation happens between CB and VB respectively. |
| Semi.-metal Semi.-carbon group           | n type semi. - metal Differs with the types of carbon group, i.e.- AC, CNTs and graphene. | /C15 e /C0 /uniFB02 ow depends on balancing the Fermi level /C15 AC provides large adsorption capacity, /C15 CNTs give large charge storage properties,                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| Multiple components                      | Semi.- metal - Semi.                                                                      | Metal works as recombination center and enhances the charge separation in heterojunction                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |

Semi./S: semiconductor, AC: Activated carbon, CNT: Carbon nanotube.

reach the ef /uniFB01 cient photocatalytic morphology and band gap of a catalyst or composites [94,95].

Reducing the band gap by heterojunctions was considered effective to improve visible-light-harvesting. Lowering the bandgap by heterojunction improves light absorption in the visible spectrum due to adding defects in molecular structure or variable vacancy states of reacting species [41,96]. Hence bridging semiconductors of different photo adsorption capacities became an effective visible-light-harvesting strategy [97,98]. Enhanced electron e hole pair separation by heterojunctions can also improve

charge carrier life span. The defects form trapping sites which enhanced photo holes trapping and reduced electron trapping in defect lattice. This phenomenon could improve charge carrier separation, electron transfer process, as well as improve redox reaction with electron acceptors [90,91]. Therefore, the charge carriers will be more available with better redox potential for photocatalytic functionality [99]. The reduction of the Eg can overcome the drawbacks of low electrical ef /uniFB01 ciency, surface area, and mechanical stability of the intrinsic semiconductor catalyst [100]. The newly arrived electrons to CB from VB could be used for environmental remediation reactions when the ionized species in electrolyte (outside of catalyst) come in contact with these charge carriers at the electrolyte catalyst interface. The critical limitation of photo electron-holes (charge carriers) is the recombination phenomenon which extinguishes the generated photoelectrons and holes by releasing the absorbed energy [101]. Supplying electrons from an external source (BES or power supply) to the positive holes in VB might offset partially the electron e hole recombination effect. Heterojunction preparation has tried to solve recombination problem by making hole traps through interatomic bonds made by lone pair electrons and defect ionized species [102]. The efforts of making heterojunction photocatalyst are trying to remediate recombination problem but has not yet reached the optimum solution.

This photocatalytic mechanism was also used in the cathode of BES, where semiconductor photocatalysts were used as the catalyst on the abiotic conductive cathode surface. Mainly two reasons were in /uniFB02 uencing photocatalysts application on the cathode. The /uniFB01 rst is to explore whether photocatalysts can be used to reduce cathodic overpotentials in BES. The second is to investigate the best performing catalyst to replace conventional and expensive catalysts like Pt or PGMs. Fig. 2b shows the photocatalytic mechanism of photocathode coupled with bio-electrons from BES anode. The incident light on the photocatalyst should be absorbed for charge separation at the semiconductor/electrolyte interface. This absorbed irradiation would excite photoelectron and hole pairs to gather at the catalyst-layered side of the cathode. For thermodynamic equilibrium, the bio-generated electrons from the anode would be transferred to the cathode side and mixed with the photogenerated positive holes in VB. Therefore, recombination at VB could be prohibited by this migrated bio-electron [103]. The tendency of a combination between bio-electrons and photo holes could be the driving force for the bio-generated electrons to /uniFB02 ow from anode to cathode resulting in faster current /uniFB02 ow in the circuit [104]. Moreover, the holes can be an active site for redox reactions for the charged ions to reduce different ionic pollutants. The heterounctions (type II/z-scheme) on the cathode surface also might receive extra bio-electrons and separated photoelectrons in CB and transfer them to the surface for reactions (reduction) with electron acceptors like diffused O2 or electron-accepting ionized pollutants, and so on. [105,106].

BES should be manufactured with the least internal resistance, and cathode should be fabricated with high performing catalysts like new generation semiconductor photocatalysts for ef /uniFB01 cient bio anodic and photo cathodic electrons production [77,107]. In BES platforms, the applied photocatalyst functions as a self-bias (internal electron supplier) to improve performance by overcoming the energy barrier induced by system internal resistance and electrode overpotential [77]. In this process, the combined bio and photogenerated electrons can enhance the RR at the catalytic site of the cathode by improving charge transfer processes. Therefore, photocatalyst application in BES cathode could improve electrochemical performance [105], decrease internal resistance [108], and enhance the reduction of targeted pollutants [109]. Enhanced charge transfer should also improve energy recovery with other bioelectrochemical performances (H2 production, desalination/ion separation, value-added product recovery, etc.). Generally, the high energy bandgap between CB and VB narrows the potential of the photocatalyst to harness visible light energy, which in turn promotes recombination. Lowering the bandgap by applying heterojunctions or hierarchical photocatalysts in BES can lower the energy barrier to reduce charge transfer resistance [78].

## 5. Selection criteria of ef /uniFB01 cient photocatalyst for cathodic improvement

Selecting any photocatalyst has to be electrochemically and photocatalytically high performing to perform the oxidation and RR. The material has to harvest the maximum solar energy to excite its photoelectrons to overcome the energy gap and participate in the associated reactions. Also, the energy bandgap between VB and CB is an essential issue as it regulates any semiconductor photocatalyst's oxidative/reductive ability. More energy is needed to overcome the gap if the bandgap is high. Another issue is that the enlarged bandgap limits the use of the visible spectrum of light and increases the electron e hole pair recombination tendency. To achieve material equilibrium, the photo-generated electrons excited to CB attempt to return the positive holes in VB. This tendency is called the recombination process by which energy (photon) is released and hence eliminates the potential charge carriers in extrinsic semiconductors. Therefore, the bandgap must be short enough to increase the usage of maximal light energy (from the visible spectrum) to harvest photoelectrons. Such bandgap can also improve the photocatalyst's electron transfer mechanism. Most photocatalytic material poses a high-energy bandgap that performs low photo and electrochemical performance. The new research studies were conducted to reduce the bandgap using bandgap engineering (Fig. 3). The semiconductor is modi /uniFB01 ed through heterojunctions/composites/doping/coupling with another near band energy/wideband semiconductor/s resulting in a more conductive and reactive morphology. Therefore, the overall energy requirement for photoelectrons and holes functioning can reduce. Hence electrons from VB could quickly be excited to move to the CB, and less photon energy would be needed to harvest more photogenerated electrons. This process also allows enhanced light absorption capacity and electron movement.

Coupling between the wideband and visible light catalyst helps to improve their weaknesses by forming direct or indirect zscheme electron transfer from CB of one semiconductor to the holes of VB in another semiconductor [110,111]. Developing such a property could enhance the redox ability with higher charge separation and charge carrier lifetime [112]. Relatively more negative CB positions in semiconductors are more capable of making visible light-responsive z-scheme heterojunctions [113]. Because of the excess photoexcited holes, p-type semiconductors are preferable for photocathodic reactions to n-type semiconductors. That is why photocathodic improvements should focus more on heterojunctions among p-type semiconductors [114]. The pollutant adsorption capacity of a photocatalyst is also critical before any application. A pollutant is /uniFB01 rst adsorbed on the surface of the photocatalyst, and then photodegradation begins under various light conditions (UV or visible source) [115,116]. Adsorption and photodegradation processes are typically sequential or sometimes together. As a result, the photocatalyst's capacity for adsorption plays a vital role in the success of any photocatalyst. Before choosing any photo-catalyst or composites for photocathodic application in BES, it is essential to understand isotherm, kinetics, and related environmental factors like pH and contact time related to adsorption capacity [117].

Fig. 3. Desired properties for visible light-responsive ef /uniFB01 cient heterojunction catalysts in BES applications during bandgap engineering. BES, bio-electrochemical system.

<!-- image -->

Fig. 4. Band position and application of different prospective photocatalysts, adopted from the study by Li et al. [82].

<!-- image -->

Fig. 4 showed the band position of different photocatalysts mentioning the possibility of oxidation and RR. The relative position of CB/VB in redox potential is thermodynamically very important for the catalyst to take part in any reaction. To perform a better RR, the semiconductor should have more negative CB potential than that reaction potential, whereas oxidation needs more positive VB potential [82]. The surface photocatalysis (oxidation and reduction by photogenerated e /C0 and h þ , respectively) will only happen when the potential of the desired reactions (i.e. H þ /H2, H2O/O2, ionized pollutants/reduced pollutants etc.) lies between the CB and VB potential favorably. However, this is a pH-dependent phenomenon. Therefore, researchers are trying to engineer the band positions (CB and VB) for desired reactions [118,119]. For application in cathodic reaction, the more reductive capacity of the photocatalyst is needed, which can help in ORR or RR for other electron acceptors. Therefore ZnS, C3N4, SiC, Bi2S3, CdS, and so on are more potential candidates to take part in cathodic reaction improvement [120 e 123]. Bandgap engineering should be done among this high reduction capable semiconductors for cathodic improvement in BES.

New-generation semiconductors and nano-material research focus on graphene-based material because of its highly conductive atomic structure, robust, durable, and sustainable nature. In a semiconductor material, graphene-like nanostructures are very promising to provide more electrocatalytic and photocatalytic performance [113,124]. Graphitic/graphene-like carbon nitride (gC3N4) is also a promising photocatalyst because of its organic and metal-free nature and enhanced reactivity under visible light

irradiation [80,125 e 127]. It was reported to apply as photoluminescence, electroluminescence material as a thin/uniFB01 lm coating on the electrode in different photoelectrochemical cells [128,129].

Bismuth-based semiconductors were also investigated for hybridization with successful synthesis and enhanced performance. Bi-containing semiconductorsareless toxicandcostlyandhavehigh potential due to their narrow bandgap (less than 3.0 eV) for photocatalytic degradation reactions [130,131]. It has strong RR evidence against environmental pollutants and organics. Different Bi-oxy halides [BiOCl (3.22 eV), BiOI (1.77 eV), BiOBr (2.64 eV)] semiconductors were hybridized for bandgap engineering and applied in various photo-electrochemical and degradation studies [132 e 135]. As a result, more Bi-heterojunctions should be investigated in BES cathodic enhancements. Before examining the heterojunction coupling, it is important to ensure bandgap tunability so that morphological changes can easily improve optical and electrical properties under visible light. Ef /uniFB01 cient coating methodsarerequired to produce ef /uniFB01 cient photoresponsive CLs on top of the conductive surface for maximum photocatalytic and electrochemical yield.

Current research focuses on bandgap engineering was carried out by doping/hybridizing with different co-catalyst to make hierarchical morphology. It could effectively minimize various problems likerapid recombination tendency, low speci /uniFB01 c surface area, and low quantum ef /uniFB01 ciency problem [136]. An essential aspect of semiconductor catalysts is their environmentally friendly nature. The metallic source of semiconductors is limited to corrosion and the high incurred cost despite their conductive nature. Earth-abundant metalbased catalysts can be brought under investigation for BES to address thecost-effectivity. Transition metals (like Cu, Ni, Co, etc.), their oxides (NiO, CuO), sul /uniFB01 des (FeS, CoS, CuS, etc.), carbides, composites [137 e 139], and nanocomposites of TiO2, Fe2O3, and their composites are less explored candidates for BES improvement. To avoid toxic metal leaching and costly preparation, metal-free catalysts, cocatalysts, and their composites are promising routes for enhanced and sustainable photocatalytic mechanisms [140 e 142]. Metal-free semiconductor photocatalysts were promoted as next-generation alternatives due to their sustainable structure, low cost, and toxicity. One of the few metal-free photocatalysts used for cathode improvement in BES is the g-C3N4 composite (Table 3). Alternatives based on carbon, such as carbon dots, are also promising non-metal co-catalysts for photocathodic enhancement [143]. Perovskites or calcium titanate oxides (such as titanates, ferrites, tantalates, niobates and vanadate) are new generation photocatalytic catalyst candidates which might be effective for cathodic H2 evolution due to their ef /uniFB01 -cient ferromagnetic, ferroelectric, dielectric, piezoelectric, and superconducting capacities [144 e 147]. It is essential to recover the catalyst for a circular process. The high cost of catalyst preparation encouragestheuseofrecoveredcatalysts.Apartfromcostsavings,the recovery and reuse of photocatalysts can reduce pollution from toxic catalyst discharge into the environment. The bene /uniFB01 t of magnetic separation to recycle and reuse the photocatalyst can be obtained by combining magnetic semiconductor oxides like ferrites with photocatalysts. Magnetic semiconductors can provide an additional electronic property to the composite for better electron transfer and hence better charge separation [148,149].

## 6. How to make effective photo catalyst layer on the cathode

The CL preparation on cathode came from the developed concept of established fuel cells like direct methanol fuel cells [150], solid oxide fuel cells [151,152], photocatalytic fuel cells [153], proton exchange membrane fuel cells (PEMFCs) [69], and so on. An effective CL should permit simultaneous movement of electrons, protons, and gas while exposing electron acceptors to the catalyst active sites for reactions with electrons. The photocatalytic CL

should synergistically accommodate photoexcited reactions along with ef /uniFB01 cient transfer of species and application of these processes for targeted outcomes.

Two types of cathode systems were observed in BES. First, the cathodes with CL were submerged in a cathodic electrolyte where electron acceptors were either diffused into the electrolyte or provided in ionized form. The second is the prepared air cathode. The air cathode's outer GDL allows the O2 to diffuse through the cathode into the electrolyte. The inside CL interacts with the electrolyte to complete the cathodic reactions. In photocathode-assisted BES, the ef /uniFB01 cient cathode preparation needs the combined contribution of high-performing photocatalyst preparation and effective CL preparation. The incident light should interact with CL to facilitate photoexcitation, formation of photo-carriers, and reactions with ionized electrolyte species to carry out oxidation and RRs. However, the knowledge and interaction of photocatalyst CL in fuel cell application is very limited. Therefore, the basic understanding of cathode CL fabrication would guide for ef /uniFB01 cient photocatalytic CL preparation. Fig. 5 summarized the engineering considerations for the effective catalysts layer fabrication on the cathode.

The kinetics and structure of CL signi /uniFB01 cantly impact the cathodic reaction kinetics. Instead of a single CL, multiple CLs with optimized thickness, catalyst content, and volume are essential for highperforming fuel cells [154]. Kocha [155] speci /uniFB01 ed necessary considerations to make high-performing cathode CL for ORR. The durability of the catalyst is the essential aspect before commercialization. The degradation of catalysts from the CL into the acidic or alkaline medium under different potentials and temperature play a vital role in CL preparation. New generation catalyst investigation often needs conductive support (activated carbon, carbon black, etc.) before coating on the electrode substrate. That is why high surface area, chemical stability, catalyst anchoring capacity, and less corrosion to voltage changes should be considered before selecting highly conductive catalyst support. The size of a catalyst particle, catalyst distribution in the coating, catalyst loading rate, treatment of catalyst before coating, and polishing temperature (sintering) are critical bottlenecks for high-performing CL.

Thecontinuousreductionof O2 toH2Oproduction reduces the O2 transport toward CL and reduces performance due to an inef /uniFB01 cient transport of surplus H2O. Hence, applying multiple layers of ef /uniFB01 cient hydrophobic agents like polytetra /uniFB02 uoroethylene as GDL can block access to products with signi /uniFB01 cant improvement in gas-mass transport, durability, and current performance [23,156]. Some researchers have recently used polydimethylsiloxane as a photopermeable GDL with excellent O2 diffusion and promising current output in BES for pollutant degradation [157]. The new generation photocatalyst preparation should focus on hierarchical nanostructured materials with regulated morphology, high functionality, andenhancedcatalytic ability [82]. The crystallinity of the catalyst is also crucial for high surface area and reduced electron traps for better photocatalytic performance [158]. To accommodate these critical considerations for an ef /uniFB01 cient photocatalytic CL preparation, a simple, low-cost, and effective catalyst layering process should be developed.

## 7. Application of visible light-responsive photocathode catalysts in BES

The application of light energy for photocatalysis in BES is a fascinating mechanism. The photogenerated carriers and bio generated electrons in photocatalytic BES make a promising symbiosis to improve the bio-electrochemical performance and operation. Importantly, these improvements of electrochemical performance and associated outcomes were due to the reduced electron transfer resistance, increased charge transfer ef /uniFB01 ciency,

Table 3 Visible-light-enhanced semiconductor photocathodic catalyst for bio-electrochemical operations.

| Reacor Con /uniFB01 g./ volume/Rext   | Anode         | Photo-cathode                               | Light source                                | Synthesis Process                         | Electron donor/ acceptor       | Reported performance                                                   | Hierarchical Structure                 | Ref   |
|---------------------------------------|---------------|---------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|--------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|-------|
| 2-C/250 mL/ 1000 U                    | CB            | CuO nanowire                                | 500 W Xe lamp                               | Thermal annealing                         | CH3COONa/O2                    | Pmax: 46.44 mW m /C0 2                                                 | Dense nanowire                         | [159] |
| 2-C/400 mL/ 5000-10 U                 | CF            | Pd e SiNW on CF                             | 350 W Xe lamp ( l &gt; 420 nm)                 | e                                         | NaAc/O2 &amp; MO                   | Pmax: 0.119 W m /C0 2 ; MO removal:84.5%                               | Nanowires                              | [108] |
| 2-C/200 mL/ 200 U                     | GF            | Mo/W on GF                                  | 100 W I2-tungstan lamp ( l : 400 e 800 nm)  | Electro-deposition                        | NaAc/O2 &amp;                      | MNZ Pmax: 264 mW m /C0 2 ; MNZ degradation: 94.5%                      | Diverse Nano-Matrices                  | [160] |
| 2-C/80 mL/100 U                       | CF            | Bi/TiO2 on CF                               | 5 W-2 LED bulbs, 95,000 ± 1000 lux          | Incipient wetness impregnation method     | Sucrose/O2                     | Pmax: 224 mW m /C0 2 ; I max: 882 mA m /C0 2                           | Poly-crystalline                       | [97]  |
| 2-C/500 mL/ 200 U                     | CF            | MoS2/TiO2 on GP                             | 50 W LED lamp                               | Hydrothermal method                       | NaAc/O2 &amp; Cr (VI)              | Pmax: 147.4 mW m /C0 2 ; Cr(VI) removal: 99.57%                        | Cross lattice fringes                  | [106] |
| 2-C/300 mL/5000 &amp; 10 U                | PANi@ CNTs/SS | CuInS2                                      | NM                                          | In-situ polymerization method             | NaC3H5O3/O2 &amp; IBU              | Pmax: 0.119 mW m /C0 2 ; I max: 0.75 A m /C0 2 ; IBU removal:75.94%;   | Interconnected spherical structure     | [161] |
| 2-C/720 mL/ 500 U                     | GP            | CuO/ZnO on GP                               | 10 W LED lamp                               | Sol-gel method                            | Milk þ AO7/O2                  | Pmax: 51.84 mW m /C0 2 ; I max:114 mA m /C0 2                          | Spherical and polyhedron nanoparticles | [162] |
| 2-C/200 mL/20 U                       | GS            | PANI /C0 CdS (QDs) on CC                    | 400 W Metal halide lamp ( l : 390 e 800 nm) | In /C0 situ synthesis                     | Glucose/O2 &amp; Cr (VI)           | Pmax: 166.93 mW m /C0 2 ; Cr(VI) removal: 97.4%;                       | Homogenous distribution                | [45]  |
| 2-C/38 mL                             | e             | WO3/NiFe2O4                                 | 500 W Xenon lamp ( l &gt; 420 nm)              | Hydrothermal method                       | Acetate/H þ                    | I max: 0.74 A m $ /C0 2 ; H2,: 1.46 ± 0.25 mL/h                        | Hexagonal                              | [78]  |
| 2-C/200 mL                            | CG            | CuInS2 on FTO                               | Xenon lamp ( l /C21 400 nm)                 | Hydrothermal                              | Lactate/ Fumarate              | Pmax: 0.108 mW cm /C0 2 , I max: 0.62 mA cm /C0 2                      | Spherical Flower                       | [105] |
| 2-C/200 mL                            | NM            | w-TiO2, (control) g-TiO2 (modi /uniFB01 ed) | 400 W lamp ( l &gt; 500 nm)                    | Cathodic reduction                        | NM/MB, MO, BB,CO               | w-TiO2: 54.88 mW m /C0 2 g-TiO2 : 70.39 mW m /C0 2                     | Crystalline- Disordered                | [96]  |
| 1-C/145 mL/10 U                       | GFB           | g-C3N4/BiOBr on Ni foam                     | 150 W xenon lamp                            | Thermal exfoliation and chemical addition | NaAc/MO                        | I max: 64.7 A m /C0 3 H2 : 143.8 L m /C0 3 d /C0 1 ; MO removal: 97.8% | Heterostructured                       | [104] |
| 2-C/200 mL/ 1000 U                    | CF            | Pd/Si- nanowire on CF                       | 300 W Xe lamp ( l &gt; 420 nm)                 | Electrochemical deposition                | NaAc/Cr (VI)                   | I max: 22.5 A m /C0 3 Cr (VI) reduction: 98.7%                         | Nanowire                               | [163] |
| 1-C/2650 mL/NM                        | CF            | Cu2O on CF                                  | 50 W LED lamp (30 mW cm /C0 2 )             | Electro-deposition                        | NM                             | Pmax: 249.0 mW m /C0 2                                                 | Multi-faceted crystalline grains       | [164] |
| 1-C/250 mL/ 1000 U                    | GG            | Li0.95 Ta0.57Nb0.38 Cu0.15O3 on CC          | 500 W solar simulator                       | Ceramic route preparation                 | Chemical industry wastewater   | Pmax: 205.35 mW m /C0 3 ; COD removal: 80%                             | Rhomboedric                            | [165] |
| 2-C/250 mL/ 1000 U                    | GG            | Li1 /C0 xTa1 /C0 xWxO3 on CC                | 500 W Visible lamp                          | Stoichiometric mixing and heating         | High COD Industrial wastewater | Pmax: 60.45 &amp; 107.2 mW m /C0 3 COD removal:79%                         | ; e                                    | [166] |

Rext: External resistance, C: Chamber, GFB: Graphite /uniFB01 ber brush, CF: Carbon felt, CC: Carbon cloth GF: Graphite felt, GP: Graphite plate, GS: Graphite sheet, GG: Graphite granules, CG: Carbon granules, NM: Not mentioned, NaAc: Sodium acetate, QDs: Quantum dots, Dyes (MB: Methylene blue, BB: Brilliant blue, MO: Methyl orange, CR: Congo red); MNZ: antibiotic drug metronidazole, IBU: ibuprofen, PANi: Polyaniline.

enhanced generation of photo electron e hole pairs, synergistic effect of biogenerated and photogenerated electrons on electrochemical performance, reducing photo electron hole pair recombination effect, improved reduction/oxidation reaction kinetics for pollutant degradation, and so on. Most of the BES photocathodic studies investigated the four objectives irrespective of the light spectrum (UV or visible) d pollutant degradation using photoreactive species, H2, and energy production and cathodic ORR/OER (illustrated in Fig. 6). The initial studies focused on applying the UV spectrum of light to different semiconductor catalysts involved in BES. However, new generation catalysts were synthesized for the visible light spectrum to bring the BES one step closer to optimization and integration with sunlight. Table 3 showed different visible-lightresponsive semiconductor catalysts applied for photocathodic BES operation. The following sections discuss signi /uniFB01 cant semiconductor applications based on the photocathodic catalyst in BES and their possible improvement mechanisms.

(e.g., phthalates) [167 e 169]. EP generated from incomplete treatment processes, and untreated synthetic chemicals can reach to the environment through leachate, urban runoffs, or direct disposal into water bodies [170 e 172]. The globally rising concern of the emerging contaminants had driven the researchers to /uniFB01 nd out the proper treatment mechanisms of various types of EPs via promising methods like the bioelectrochemical systems (BES) [173 e 175], electrocatalysts [176,177] and photocatalyst enhanced BES processes [108,160].

## 7.1. Emerging pollutants removal by photocathode catalysts

Emerging pollutants (EP) are classi /uniFB01 ed as potentially harmful chemical residue originating from daily-life products (e.g., pharmaceuticals and personal care products), or industrial activities

BES technologies had been studied extensively for pollution remediation, either in anodic or cathodic reduction pathways [24,178 e 182]. To enhance contaminant degradation and replace unsustainable catalysts, photocatalyst/electrocatalyst coupled BES were investigated [104,105,183]. In photocatalyst-assisted BES, photocathode is illuminated by a light source (UV or visible) generating photocarriers known as photoelectrons and holes (h þ ). The charge carriers are separated and then transferred to the active sites at the surface of the photocatalyst. The highly oxidative holes promote to form highly reactive intermediates (like superoxides (O 2 /C15 e ), hydroxyl radicals ( /C15 OH), which are also very strong and nonselective candidates to inactivate emerging pollutants [6,80,81]. The formation of photoreactive species and their pollutant inactivation reactions are shown below:

Fig. 5. Engineering considerations for the ef /uniFB01 cient catalyst layer fabrication on cathode (GDL: Gas diffusion layer).

<!-- image -->

Photocatalyst þ h n / h þ þ e /C0

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

2 OOH O H O $ / O2 þ H2O2

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Organic pollutants resultant radicals / CO þ H2 O þ intermediate products

Generally, the application of photoelectrocatalysis in BESs has been widely investigated in regard to contaminant degradation. Photocatalytic pollution removal on cathode using different semiconductors was investigated through irradiating either by UV or visible light [104,184 e 186]. Xu et al. [47] studied the cathodic removal of O /uniFB02 oxacin antibiotic simultaneously with power production in photo-assisted microbial fuel cell (MFC). They suggested the system as an excellent and effective candidate for emerging pollutants treatment in wastewater. Under UV light, the maximum power density of 0.546 W/m 2 and the 86.5% of O /uniFB02 oxacin degradation have been achieved by using LiNbO3/CF photoelectrocatalyst, where the active species /C15 OH and /C15 O2 /C0 were dominant for the o /uniFB02 oxacin degradation. In addition, Chen et al. (2020) prepared a CeO2/TiO2/ACF catalytic cathode by sol-gel synthesis of CeO2/TiO2 and investigated the photoelectrocatalytic degradation of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) by UV radiation. The results showed an excellent removal capacity of ethyl acetate (0.39 g/m 3 , EC: 2.52 g/m 3 h /C0 1 ) and toluene (0.29 g/m 3 , removal capacity: 1.89 g/m 3 h /C0 1 ). Most photocatalytic contaminant removal studies showed that photo-electrocatalysis is more effective in treating pollutants in comparison to photocatalysis and electrocatalysis processes alone [187]. However, previously investigated photocatalysts used UV irradiation, limiting their real-life application due to their lack of access to visible light.

In recent years, visible-light photocatalysts in BES has attracted much attention for pollutant degradation. Photocathode modi /uniFB01 ed by visible light-responsive semiconductors had investigated in photocathode BES for the removal EPs like methyl orange (MO) [104,108,184], hexavalent-chromium (Cr(VI)) [45,163,188], reactive black 5 (RB5) dye [189], and some of the antibiotics such as metronidazole (MNZ) [160] and ibuprofen (IBU) [190]. Regarding MO degradation, Hou et al. (2017) obtained the highest removal ef /uniFB01 -ciency of 97.8% in a single-chamber MFC, under an external resistance of (Rext ¼ 10 U ), using the g-C3N4/BiOBr e Ni foam photocathode. The remarkable performance of the g-C3N4/BiOBr photo-electro-cathode was due to the low recombination of photocarriers and high electrochemical activity, as con /uniFB01 rmed by the electrochemical results [104]. On the other hand, the Pd nanoparticle-modi /uniFB01 ed p-type Si nanowire (Pd e SiNW) photocathode of a two-chamber MFC was able to degrade 84.5% of MO using a xenon lamp (350 W) under a low external resistance. MO's high degradation capacity resulted from excellent morphological characteristics and high pseudo/uniFB01 rst-order kinetic constant (0.0536 h /C0 1 ) of Pd e SiNW [108]. Other EPs such as Cr(VI) was found to be removedbythevisiblelight-responsivephotocatalystsof MoS2/TiO2 (99.57%), Pd/Si- nanowire (98.7%), and PANI /C0 CdS(QDs)(97.4%)(Han et al., 2018; Shan et al., 2020b; Talooki et al., 2020). The reason behind the effectiveness of MFC in removing Cr (VI) is due to the low persistenceofCr(VI)incomparisontodyeorantibiotics.However,to enhance the removal of EPs by photoelectrocatalytic degradation in BES more stable and visible light ef /uniFB01 cient photocatalyst should be investigated through green synthesis process which will emphasize low toxicity and cost-effectiveness. Different persistent nature Eps should be investigated with intermediate degradation mechanisms (anaerobic, anaerobic process, etc.) to check the feasibility and kinetics of degradation by photocathodic BES. The long-term study on the degradation of Eps and the leaching/stability of catalyst in photocathodic BES is important toward practical application. The techno-economic and life cycle analysis, exergy, and exergonomic analysis should be carried out before optimizing the best performing photocathode BES con /uniFB01 gurations.

Fig. 6. Various photocathodic reactions in bio-electrochemical systems.

<!-- image -->

## 7.2. HER by photocathode catalyst

Hydrogen (H2) is the clean energy fuel for future vehicles and power production. Therefore, H2 production using HER is intensively investigated through different routes. Unlike electrolytic cells, BES can generate H2 from transferred anodic protons through cathodic HER in a MEC. In this process, MEC cathode takes the combined help of bio-generated electrons and external power supply to overcome the thermodynamic barrier of HER [191,192]. This highly promising technology requires less external voltage to overcome this limiting potential (theoretically 0.16 V but practically between 0.2 and 0.8 V) than the conventional electrolysis cell (more than 2 V) for H2 production while giving a number of value-added products [193]. However, researchers are trying to overcome this need of external power which is inhibiting MEC to be commercialized which constitutes nearly 94% of total energy demand of operation with signi /uniFB01 cant amount of global warming potential [192]. H2 production through HER on catalyst is a process consisting of three simple steps in both acidic and alkaline environment. The reaction steps are shown in Table 4. The ef /uniFB01 ciency of HER depends on the cathode catalyst and the architecture of electrode surface which compelled the investigation of several promising catalysts like pure and mixed culture bio-cathode catalysts [193], non-noble metal catalysts [194], transition metal phosphides [195], metal organic frameworks [196], heteroatom doped carbon based catalysts [197], as well as preparation factors for highly ef /uniFB01 cient CL [198], and so on. Photo-assisted semiconductor catalysts are the recent research focus to harness the clean energy of sunlight for the improvement of cathodic HER [192]. However, the current research coverage on photocatalyst for HER is insuf /uniFB01 cient in addressing the bottlenecks of MEC.

S. Rahman, N.J. Al Balushi, J.K. Nayak et al.

Table 4 Reaction steps for HER in different environment [199].

| Reaction steps                        | Acidic media                                            | Alkaline media                                                            |
|---------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Volmer step Heyrovsky step Tafel step | H þ þ e /C0 / Had Had þ H þ þ e /C0 / H2 Had þ Had / H2 | H2O þ e /C0 / OH /C0 þ Had Had þ H2O þ e /C0 / OH /C0 þ H2 Had þ Had / H2 |

Had: Proton becomes adsorbed hydrogen after receiving e /C0 at active sites of catalyst.

The HER photocatalyst research in BES can be divided into two main categories d with or without applying external voltage to overcome the thermodynamic limitation. The studies without an external voltage supply can be associated with MFC as a selfsustaining mechanism due to light responsive catalyst to produce H2. Recently, MoS2 nanocomposite (MoS2/polydopamine/TiO2) was synthesized in-situ on polydopamine-modi /uniFB01 ed TiO2 NTs electrode to apply as photocathode in MFC for H2 evolution [200]. Without external bias, this self-sustained heterojunction catalyst could harness the bioelectricity and photo-generated electrons to produce H2 at a rate of 0.003 m 3 m 3 min /C0 /C0 1 under visible light irradiation. The composite provided an excellent catalytic and photo electrochemical performance with low over potential and recombination of electron hole pair. Earlier, TiO2 nanorods photocathode arranged MFC showed 4.4 m L h /C0 1 H2 production by overcoming the thermodynamic barrier without external bias [201]. Another visible light responsive Si-nanowire photocathode in MEC was connected with MFC for bio-generated electrons to work as internal bias for cathodic H2 production. Low recombination rate with excellent synergistic effect of photo and bio generated electrons allowed promising photo cathodic H2 production rate of 1.35 mL/h [202]. An excellent visible light responsive heterojunction was synthesized by doping Co e N heteroatom in MoS2 on biomass carbon porous electrode to investigate simultaneous H2 production and levo/uniFB02 oxacin (LEV) degradation. This photocatalyst showed favorable band gap of 1.11 eV which resulted good H2 production (3.1 /C2 10 /C0 3 m 3 m 3 min /C0 /C0 1 ) and LEV degradation (4.9 /C2 10 /C0 2 min /C0 1 ) without external bias in a dual cathode single anode MFC [203]. Few studies also investigated new photocatalysts with external bias. Carbonaceous photocatalyst from sugar industry waste was synthesized to apply as catalyst for cathode and anode in MEC to investigate cathodic H2 evolution. With an external voltage of /C0 0.7 V, the integrated system produced 3.6 mL/L/h of H2 under arti /uniFB01 cial LED light [204]. Another visible light sensitive WO3 was electrodeposited on FTO glass and further nickel ferrite was codeposited to make composite (NiFe2O4/WO3) for photocathode application for H2 in a MEC setup consisting of biophotoelectrochemical cell and photo anode MFC. The composite showed low recombination rate with improved durability and H2 production (10.67 m L h /C0 1 cm /C0 2 ) for long-term operation with an optimal external bias of /C0 0.3 V [78]. Earlier, a visible light responsive Cu2O/NiOx photo cathode was fabricated to study the effect of CL thickness and external bias on H2 production in a photoelectrochemical MEC. An optimal 240 nm NiOx thickness on a /uniFB01 xed 3 m m Cu2O /uniFB01 lm showed reduced need of external bias ( /C0 0.2 V) to maintain high rate of H2 production (5.09 m L h /C0 1 cm /C0 2 ) [7]. However, the future H2 production in BES should consider following aspect from operation and process point of view. The effect of alkaline and acidic condition of cathodic electrolyte on H2 evolution has to be investigated thoroughly for photo catalytic integration in BES. In case of other side reactions (OER, pollution RRs etc.) occurring in cathode while HER, the electron harvesting for H2 generation might be hindered. Therefore, investigating those support reactions as well as their optimization mechanism are needed for sustainable H2 production in MEC. While producing H2 as main product, the byproduct of HER might cause mass transport loss in cathode. Therefore, the byproducts should be monitored and cared so that the electron harvesting process by the photocatalyst cannot be hampered for HER. The charge transfer mechanism, lightharvesting and recombination problem of photocatalyst can be improved by co-catalyst doping and synthesizing highly functional morphologies [82]. That is why new generation photocatalyst studies should be more focused on heterojunction catalysts with the emphasis of desired performance improvement. Ef /uniFB01 cient, low cost, visible light responsive, non-precious photocatalysts like sul/uniFB01 de hierarchical composites, graphene-based nanocomposites, and so on should be investigated in MEC with and without power supply. Ef /uniFB01 cient power harvesting BES con /uniFB01 gurations with lowest internal resistance should be investigated before optimizing external bias for ef /uniFB01 cient and self-sustaining H2 production. Photovoltaic integration (like solar cell) in photocathode MECs should be investigated to supply external voltage to understand the feasibility of full sunlight based H2 production in BES.

## 7.3. ORR in by photocathode catalyst

The process of electron exchange with the cathode surface is the vital step for the electron acceptors to become a suitable candidate for reduction reaction (RR). ORR in cathode showed much easier reaction kinetics than other redox species [205]. The natural abundance, high oxidation potential, good reactivity at neutral pH and water as the green /uniFB01 nal product of ORR also made O2 the most common electron acceptor in fuel cell research and applications [65]. Other than BES, application of O2 for ORR had been extensively researched for various applications like metal air batteries [206,207] and PEMFC [208], and so on. Catalytic oxygen reduction in cathode follows mainly two pathways. Reducing O2 to stable H2O in a faster four e /C0 process, which is more advantageous than O2 reduction to non-stable H2O2 in a two e /C0 process [66]. The faster four e /C0 process occurs at the single site of catalyst with simple steps while two e /C0 process needs multiple sites with several reaction steps and intermediates. Table 5 highlights the reaction pathways of ORR. In BES and PEMFC, this ORR is the limiting step in cathode due to the low solubility of O2 and high activation barrier [67,208]. The thermodynamic response of cathode while interacting with any electron acceptors depends on the current exchange ef /uniFB01 ciency of electrode material. Therefore, catalysts were used on cathode to improve the ef /uniFB01 ciency of electrodes by enhancing the current exchange capacity and reducing the activation barrier [205]. The most ef /uniFB01 cient O2 diffusion way for cathode reaction is the application of Pt-coated air cathode, where O2 enters through the GDL and interacts with the CL for O2 reduction by a complex gas e liquid transfer process [68,69]. CL made of Pt nanoparticle or PGMs is the most ef /uniFB01 cient and studied state-of-the-art metallic catalyst for ef /uniFB01 cient ORR [70]. Despite high performance, Pt is not practically applicable catalyst due to its high cost, low quantity, poor stability, toxic leaching [60,74], poisoning by corrosive ions, and pHdependent functionality [62]. Another way for O2 supply other than air cathode system is aeration in cathode electrolyte, which takes energy consuming equipment and suffers low O2 solubility [36]. To replace PGM-based catalyst and remediate the O2 diffusion limitation, BES research has focused on developing low cost, environment-friendly, highly functional, visible-light-assisted new generation, and heterojunction cathode catalysts. Research on BES cathode catalyst for ORR improvement mostly related to functional, ef /uniFB01 cient, and semiconductor-based heterojunctions. Some of the comprehensive reviews focused on non Pt and non-precious heterojunction catalysts [209 e 212], carbonaceous nano-composite cathode materials [213], graphene based catalysts [214], nanocomposite MnO2 catalyzed bio cathode applications [215], bio char electro catalysts for MFC [216], and so on. Though photoenhanced semiconductor catalysts for cathodic improvement in

Reaction pathways of ORR [217]. ORR, oxygen reduction reaction.

SHE: Standard Hydrogen Electrode

<!-- image -->

BES were greatly studied, studies related to photo-driven abiotic ORR catalyst are limited [37,50].

CeO2/TiO2 heterojunction was applied on activated carbon felt as cathode in a novel UV-assisted MFC for ORR and VOC removal [218]. The result suggested that, reactive superoxide (O2 ) /C0 was formed as reactive oxygen species (ROS) from the aerated O2 through ORR for VOC removal. Some other studies also used ROS for VOC removal using photocatalytic air cathode of TiO2 nanosheets [186]. Bhowmick et al. [219] investigated TiO2/AC composite as cathodic photocatalyst in an MFC under UV irradiation. Superior power/current density and ORR kinetics were achieved by the UV-radiated TiO2/AC photo cathode MFC (494 mW m /C0 2 / 2.35 A m 2 ) /C0 compared to the control (238.6 mW m 2 / /C0 1.72 A m /C0 2 ). Polarization and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy data showed reduced internal resistance (Rint) (105 U compared to 132 U ) and charge transfer resistance (Rct) (1.1 U compared to 2 U ), respectively during this ORR. However, various visible light ef /uniFB01 cient ORR photocatalysts were investigated in recent times to use the visible spectrum of light. Earlier, CuO nanowire was successfully coated on Cu-foil to use as ORR photocathode catalyst in a dual chamber MFC [159]. The nanowire coating improved the power density of MFC by 125% with a 6% and 23% decrease of Rint and Rct, respectively under visible light. This showed successful symbiosis between bio-generated e /C0 of anode and photogenerated carriers of cathode under visible light for ORR reaction. Recently, CuO/ZnO-modi /uniFB01 ed graphite rod electrode was used in a dual chamber MFC cathode under visible light irradiation to carry out ORR, power production, and treatment [162]. Under visible light, the current production improved 2.74 times against no light with 39% and 30% decrease in Rint and Rct, respectively, compared to bare graphite. Visible light ef /uniFB01 cient Bi-doped TiO2/carbon felt heterojunction was investigated as ORR catalyst in dual chamber BES [97]. Band gap was effectively reduced from 2.80 eV (TiO2) to 3.26 eV (Bi e TiO2) by wetness impregnation synthesis process which reduced the Rct about two times (from 3.95 U to 1.9 U ). Columbic ef /uniFB01 ciency of BES is an energy conversion indicator from consumed organics by bacteria which can be affected profoundly by Rct of cathode [20]. This photo assisted BES with Bi e TiO2 cathode showed 2.33 times higher Columbic ef /uniFB01 ciency than Pt and superior power density was observed for Bi e TiO2 (224 mW m /C0 2 ) compared to Pt-catalyst (194 mW m /C0 2 ) for ORR

[97]. However, the current research should focus on several issues of ORR catalyst. Hierarchical photocatalyst for superior molecular diffusion, visible light ef /uniFB01 cient, high light scattering and harvesting capacity, and high surface area for abundant active absorption and reaction sites need to be investigated for air cathode application [82]. Visible light ef /uniFB01 cient PGM-free photocatalyst in air cathode for performance improvement should be investigated more as ORR catalyst. Ef /uniFB01 ciently engineered air cathode with photosensitive catalyst and proper gas liquid interaction can revolutionize the usage of oxygen and sunlight for bioelectrochemical application. The effect of ROS on ORR reaction and pollution removal should be investigated individually for comprehensive understanding.

## 7.4. OER by photocathode catalysts

PGM catalysts were commonly used in BES for in-situ O2 evolution reaction. A promising alternative of these PGM catalysts are the photosynthetic biocatalysts. The phototropic organisms convert the sunlight to chemical energy by substrate metabolism and photo respiration, which can effectively respire the anodic/cathodic CO2 in BES and O2 is generated as product [220,221]. The photo biocatalyst broadly includes anoxygenic and oxygenic prokaryotes; however, the cathodic OER depends on the oxygenic organisms. The primary objective of the cathodic application of biocatalysts is to liberate O2 through photosynthetic reaction for cathodic OER in biocompatible reduction/oxidation reaction by CO2 sequestration process using a light source [222,223] or to reduce different pollutants with the simultaneous valorization of value-added products. Microalgae and cyanobacteria are two naturally abundant and adaptive oxygenic prokaryotes that are signi /uniFB01 cantly investigated as photo-assisted biocatalysts in BES to replace expensive and toxic catalysts in the cathode. However, the semiconductor-based photocatalysts were also vastly investigated for ef /uniFB01 cient OER by replacing the expensive PGM catalyst. Generally, an ef /uniFB01 cient abiotic catalyst should have two active reaction sites where ORR and OER could simultaneously be carried out. The molecular O2 generation using OER is a highly pH-dependent mechanism (Eqs. (3) and (4)) that liberates multiple protons and e /C0 during the process [224]. In this process, BES needs to overcome the high overpotential for OER catalyst which can make the OER process very sluggish. That is why

OER catalyst should be selected with low overpotential and cost with high stability.

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

The advantage of photo biocatalyst over abiotic catalysts were (1) successful utilization of sunlight, water, natural substrate for their respiration [225], (2) using photosynthesis process of CO2 sequestration and in-situ supply of O2 as /uniFB01 nal product to provide electron acceptor which eliminates the expense of aeration [226], (3) replacing the costly catalyst needed for faster OER reaction for current production irrespective of light [223,227], (4) reduction of cathodic over potential due to various losses by abiotic catalyst in an environment friendly way [228], (5) production of promising added products like biohydrogen, bio diesel, algal biomass, and other biofuels [229,230], (6) anodic algal use can effectively reduce various pollutants like organics and nitrogen from different wastewaters like land /uniFB01 ll leachate [231], industrial wastewater [232], swine wastewater [233], and so on. Apart from the advantages, the engineering challenges of this photosynthetic OER catalysts needs to be addressed for effective OER outputs d (1) /uniFB01 nding the way to optimize the effect of seasonal temperatures on operation, (2) optimizing the reactor design for round the clock energy production under dark and light conditions, (3) slow reaction kinetics [234], (4) more algal and biocatalysts strains should be brought under investigation to /uniFB01 nd the best performing catalyst, (5) /uniFB01 nding ef /uniFB01 cient ways of light-harvesting of natural and arti /uniFB01 cial light sources, (6) reducing electron loss by the algal cellular process for ATP production during metabolism [229], (7) /uniFB01 nding functional electrode material to enhance electron trapping for cathodic reactions and processes, (8) The operational and maintenance cost of biocatalyst needs to be investigated before full scale commercialization, and (9) need algal concentration controlling mechanism for the appropriate light-harvesting and substrate metabolism.

The technology of bacteria-induced electron /uniFB02 ow to carry out desalination or deionization in BES is called microbial desalination cell (MDC)or bioelectrochemicaldesalinationcell. In this mechanism, desalination happens from salt electrolyte between anode and cathode compartments through a pair of membranes (Cao et al., 2009). MDC is a zero-energy desalination process using bio-generated electrons from biologically oxidized organics of wastes in a series of enzymatic reactions [28,235]. Hence MDC becomes a sustainable and green mechanism for treatment and desalination simultaneously. Theoretically,1 mol of bio-generated electron /uniFB02 owintheoutercircuit of MDC should drive 1 mol of counter ions (Na þ or Cl /C0 ) from the salt chamber to other chambers. Therefore, the salt chamber electrolyte becomes desalinated and bio-electrochemical desalination happens. Unlike BES, MDC also suffers from cathodic limitations. The internal resistance due to cathodic over potential in MDC costs about 80 e 90% loss of cell potential, which could be improved by ef /uniFB01 cient cathode modi /uniFB01 cation or catalyst application [63,104,236,237]. Pt-coated air cathode, a well-known and highly ef /uniFB01 cient oxygen diffusion system from direct air, could reduce the internal resistance of MDC to use oxygen as an electron acceptor. This way, desalination performance was improved because of improved cathodic current [20].

To overcome the demerits of PGM catalysts, new generation, low cost, and ef /uniFB01 cient cathodic ORR and OER catalysts were under investigation for MDC cathodic improvement. To replace PGM abiotic catalysts for cathodic improvement in MDC, few electro catalysts like cathode coating of polypyrrole [238], Ag e SnO2 composite [239], d MnO2/graphene nanocomposite [240], activated carbon [241], and molybdenum phosphate/carbon black (PMo/CB) [242] were studied. However, several photosynthetic bio cathodic organisms were studied in MDC (Fig. 7), especially with micro algae ( Chlorella vulgaris , Scenedesmus abundans , etc.) in cathodic operation to supply O2 as an electron acceptor through OER instead of expensive and metallic cathode catalyst [243]. Photosynthetic algae use light to photo tropically generate O2 by assimilating CO2 at the cathode by uptaking anodic organics and pollutants. As a result, algal biomass can be produced as a byproduct with high biofuel generation. In most photosynthetic algal MDC, the reported desalination performance was between 50 and 60%. It indicates the need for cathodic improvement for better electrochemical desalination. In most of the photosynthetic MDC studies, the internal system resistance was not clear, which is a limitation for greater electrochemical yield. However, investigating new generation photo-electro catalysts in MDC on improving cathodic performance is still in its infancy to check the feasibility for enhanced currentinduced outcomes. To our knowledge, cathodic improvement in MDC was not studied by semiconductor photocatalysts.

Fig. 7. Photosynthetic application in MDC studies ( a ) Algal MDC [223], ( b ) Bio-photocatalyst MDC [9]. MDC, microbial desalination cell.

<!-- image -->

Only one study reported abiotic photocatalyst applied in anode where a -hematite ( a -Fe2O3) was used as a nanostructured catalyst (Fig. 7). Light harvested energy helped in anodic oxidation reaction to achieve high desalination ef /uniFB01 ciency of more than 95% [9]. This result shows that photocatalyst application in BES could improve desalination performance. However, no cathodic studies were carried out with abiotic semiconductor photocatalysts to improve desalination. The improvement of desalination in MDC can be associated with (1) reducing cathodic voltage loss due to overpotentials induced by system con /uniFB01 guration and (2) maintaining high electron /uniFB02 ow on the outer circuit while operating in an MDC with low system internal resistance. The semiconductor photocatalyst in MDC cathode could overcome such limitations of internal resistance and overpotential by the photogenerated carriers and low recombination in heterojunctions by biogenerated electrons. Instead of using UV light-assisted semiconductors, researchers should focus on visible light-responsive catalysts to use the visible spectrum. The heterojunction composite photocatalyst could work as self-bias in the system, and an improved lightharvesting mechanism could provide greater charge separation and transfer [244]. Therefore, the electrical gradient among chambers that promotes the ion separation from the salt chamber could be enhanced and desalination might be improved.

## 8. Conclusion and recommendation

This review thoroughly discussed semiconductor photocatalysts and their opportunities for improving BES cathodic limitation. The strategies for cathode surface modi /uniFB01 cation will open the door for the future implementation of BES technologies. The tailored properties of semiconductor photocatalyst can help the cathode CL to overcome BES limitations. The promising combination of bio /uniFB01 lmgenerated electrons and semiconductor photocarriers has provided BES with a new platform for converting visible light to electrical energy. This review article summarized the photocathode reactions under visible light for pollution removal, ORR, H2 production, OER, and the prospect of photocathode bioelectrochemical desalination. Several investigations studied single step photocathodic pollutant ion removal in BES. However, the feasibility of multiple-stage (pre/post) degradation processes with the existing BES photocathode can be bene /uniFB01 cial. Photocathodefunctioned clean hydrogen production in MEC can be revolutionary. The ORR at photocathode BES has the promising dual function of reducing air available O2 to maintain cathodic half reaction while simultaneously removing pollution. The innovative CL engineering can promote the ORR toward real application. Solving catalyst leaching problem can be challenging to ensure catalyst stability and durability. The combined effects of the semiconductor photocathode and photo biocatalyst (by biocatalyst) in BES have not yet been studied. This symbiotic interaction of biotic and abiotic mechanisms can be dif /uniFB01 cult, but it is also effective and bene /uniFB01 cial. Integrating photovoltaics and photocatalysts with BES could transform it into a self-sustaining device by overcoming potential losses.

The following recommendations can be bene /uniFB01 cial in solving the challenges of semiconductor photocatalyst application in photocathode BES for future catalytic implementation:

- ➢ Air-cathode development for visible light-responsive PGMfree photocatalysts for ef /uniFB01 cient ORR reactions can be very promising. Individual effects of ROS on ORR reaction and on pollutant removal needs in-depth research attention.
- ➢ Integration of photovoltaics (i.e. solar energy) with photocathode MEC can establish a next-generation fully photobased H2 production.
- ➢ Long-term study of BES for pollutants removal is needed considering the biocompatibility and chemical stability of the photocatalysts.
- ➢ Bio-electrochemical desalination using visible lightresponsive semiconductor photocathodes is not yet investigated. Therefore, the combined effects of photocarriers and bio-electrons need future focus for eco-friendly and sustainable desalination.
- ➢ Optimum design, techno-economic analysis, exergy, and exergonomic studies are needed before large-scale implementation.

## Declaration of competing interest

The authors declare that they have no known competing /uniFB01 nancial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to in /uniFB02 uence the work reported in this paper.

## Data availability

Data will be made available on request.

## Acknowledgments

The authors are grateful to The Research Council (TRC), Muscat, Sultanate of Oman, for the /uniFB01 nancial support through the grant no (RC/RG-ENG/CAED/19/01). The authors appreciate Sultan Qaboos University to provide administrative and logistic support.

## References

- [1] O. Edenhofer, R. Pichs-Madruga, Y. Sokona Mali, S. Kadner, J.C. Minx, S. Brunner, S. Agrawala, G.U. Baiocchi, I. Alexeyevich Bashmakov, G. Blanco, J. Broome, T. Bruckner, M. Bustamante, L. Clarke, M.C. Grand, F. Creutzig, X. Cruz-Núnez, ~ S. Dhakal, N.K. Dubash, P. Eickemeier, E. Farahani, M. Fischedick, M. Fleurbaey, R. Gerlagh, L. Gomez-Echeverri, /C19 S. Gupta, J. Harnisch, K. Jiang, F. Jotzo, S. Kartha, S. Klasen, C. Kolstad, V. Krey, H. Kunreuther, O. Lucon, O. Masera, Y. Mulugetta, R.B. Norgaard, A. Patt, N.H. Ravindranath, K. Riahi, J. Roy, A. Sagar, R. Schaeffer, S. Schlomer, € K.C. Seto, K. Seyboth, R. Sims, P. Smith, E.S. Anathan, R. Stavins, C. von Stechow, T. Sterner, T. Sugiyama, S. Suh, D. Ürge-Vorsatz, K. Urama, A. Venables, D.G. Victor, E. Weber, D. Zhou, J. Zou, T. Zwickel, Technical summary, in: Climate Change 2014: Mitigation of Climate Change. Contribution of Working Group III to the Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, United Kingdom and New York, NY, USA., 2014.
- [2] IEA, Renewables 2021, IEA, Paris, 2021. https://www.iea.org/reports/ renewables-2021/executive-summary. (Accessed 24 February 2022).
- [3] J. Zhang, W. Wang, S. You, D. Qi, Z. Liu, D. Liu, M. Ma, F. Cui, N. Ren, X. Chen, Photothermal janus anode with photosynthesis-shielding effect for activating low-temperature biological wastewater treatment, Adv. Funct. Mater. 30 (2020) 1 e 10, https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201909432.
- [4] S.M. Hossain, H. Park, H.J. Kang, J.S. Mun, L. Tijing, I. Rhee, J.H. Kim, Y.S. Jun, H.K. Shon, Synthesis and NOx removal performance of anatase S e TiO2/g-CN heterojunction formed from dye wastewater sludge, Chemosphere 275 (2021), 130020, https://doi.org/10.1016/J.CHEMOSPHERE.2021.130020.
- [5] R. He, L. Liu, P. Shi, C. Nie, Environmental decontamination using photocatalytic fuel cells and photoelectrocatalysis-microbial fuel cells, J. Chem. Technol. Biotechnol. 93 (2018) 3336 e 3346, https://doi.org/10.1002/ jctb.5729.
- [6] B.O. Orimolade, O.A. Arotiba, Towards visible light driven photoelectrocatalysis for water treatment: application of a FTO/BiVO4/Ag2S heterojunction anode for the removal of emerging pharmaceutical pollutants, Sci. Rep. 10 (2020) 1 e 13, https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-020-62425-w.
- [7] D. Liang, G. Han, Y. Zhang, S. Rao, S. Lu, H. Wang, Y. Xiang, Ef /uniFB01 cient H2 production in a microbial photoelectrochemical cell with a composite Cu2O/ NiOx photocathode under visible light, Appl. Energy 168 (2016) 544 e 549, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2016.01.118.
- [8] J. Sun, W. Xu, Y. Yuan, X. Lu, B.V. Kjellerup, Z. Xu, H. Zhang, Y. Zhang, Bioelectrical power generation coupled with high-strength nitrogen removal using a photo-bioelectrochemical fuel cell under oxytetracycline stress, Electrochim. Acta 299 (2019) 500 e 508, https://doi.org/10.1016/ j.electacta.2019.01.036.
- [9] Y. Liang, H. Feng, D. Shen, N. Li, Y. Long, Y. Zhou, Y. Gu, X. Ying, Q. Dai, SI\_A high-performance photo-microbial desalination cell, Electrochim. Acta 202 (2016) 197 e 202, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2016.03.177.

- [10] M.C. Potter, Electrical effects accompanying the decomposition of organic compounds, in: Proc R. Soc. London. Ser B, Biol. Sci., The Royal Society, 1911, pp. 260 e 276, https://doi.org/10.1098/rspb.1911.0073.
- [11] B.E. Logan, Microbial Fuel Cells, 2010, https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-44453199-5.00098-1.
- [12] S. Barua, B.S. Zakaria, A. Al-Mamun, B.R. Dhar, Anodic performance of microbial electrolysis cells in response to ammonia nitrogen, J. Environ. Eng. Sci. 14 (2018) 37 e 43, https://doi.org/10.1680/jenes.18.00010.
- [13] A. Al-Mamun, M.S. Baawain, F. Egger, A.H. Al-Muhtaseb, H.Y. Ng, Optimization of a baf /uniFB02 ed-reactor microbial fuel cell using autotrophic denitrifying bio-cathode for removing nitrogen and recovering electrical energy, Biochem. Eng. J. 120 (2017) 93 e 102, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bej.2016.12.015.
- [14] A. Al-Mamun, M.S. Baawain, B.R. Dhar, I.S. Kim, Improved recovery of bioenergy and osmotic water in an osmotic microbial fuel cell using microdiffuser assisted marine aerobic bio /uniFB01 lm on cathode, Biochem. Eng. J. 128 (2017) 235 e 242, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bej.2017.09.020.
- [15] G. Drendel, E.R. Mathews, L. Semenec, A.E. Franks, Microbial fuel cells, related technologies, and their applications, Appl. Sci. 8 (2018) 1 e 18, https://doi.org/ 10.3390/app8122384.
- [16] O. Lefebvre, A. Al-Mamun, W.K. Ooi, Z. Tang, D.H.C. Chua, H.Y. Ng, An insight into cathode options for microbial fuel cells, Water Sci. Technol. 57 (2008) 2031 e 2037, https://doi.org/10.2166/wst.2008.611.
- [17] O. Lefebvre, W.K. Ooi, Z. Tang, M. Abdullah-Al-Mamun, D.H.C. Chua, H.Y. Ng, Optimization of a Pt-free cathode suitable for practical applications of microbial fuel cells, Bioresour. Technol. 100 (2009) 4907 e 4910, https://doi.org/ 10.1016/j.biortech.2009.04.061.
- [18] A. Al-Mamun, T. Jafary, M.S. Baawain, S. Rahman, M.R. Choudhury, M. Tabatabaei, S.S. Lam, Energy recovery and carbon/nitrogen removal from sewage and contaminated groundwater in a coupled hydrolytic-acidogenic sequencing batch reactor and denitrifying biocathode microbial fuel cell, Environ. Res. 183 (2020), 109273, https://doi.org/10.1016/ j.envres.2020.109273.
- [19] B.E. Logan, R. Rossi, A. Ragab, P.E. Saikaly, Electroactive microorganisms in bioelectrochemical systems, Nat. Rev. Microbiol. 17 (2019) 307 e 319, https:// doi.org/10.1038/s41579-019-0173-x.
- [20] S. Rahman, A. Al-Mamun, T. Jafary, H. Alhimali, M.S. Baawain, Effect of internal and external resistances on desalination in microbial desalination cell, Water Sci. Technol. (2021) 1 e 15, https://doi.org/10.2166/wst.2021.145.
- [21] A. Al-Mamun, O. Lefebvre, M.S. Baawain, H.Y. Ng, A sandwiched denitrifying biocathode in a microbial fuel cell for electricity generation and waste minimization, Int. J. Environ. Sci. Technol. 13 (2016) 1055 e 1064, https:// doi.org/10.1007/s13762-016-0943-1.
- [22] A. Al-Mamun, M.S. Baawain, Accumulation of intermediate denitrifying compounds inhibiting biological denitri /uniFB01 cation on cathode in microbial fuel cell, J. Environ. Heal. Sci. Eng. 13 (2015) 1 e 9, https://doi.org/10.1186/ s40201-015-0236-5.
- [23] M. Wang, M. Chen, Z. Yang, G. Liu, J. Kee Lee, W. Yang, X. Wang, High-performance and durable cathode catalyst layer with hydrophobic C@PTFE particles for low-Pt loading membrane assembly electrode of PEMFC, Energy Convers. Manag. 191 (2019) 132 e 140, https://doi.org/10.1016/ j.enconman.2019.04.014.
- [24] W. Yan, Y. Xiao, W. Yan, R. Ding, S. Wang, F. Zhao, The effect of bioelectrochemical systems on antibiotics removal and antibiotic resistance genes: a review, Chem. Eng. J. 358 (2019) 1421 e 1437, https://doi.org/ 10.1016/J.CEJ.2018.10.128.
- [25] C. Corbella, J. Puigagut, Improving domestic wastewater treatment ef /uniFB01 ciency with constructed wetland microbial fuel cells: in /uniFB02 uence of anode material and external resistance, Sci. Total Environ. 631 e 632 (2018) 1406 e 1414, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scitotenv.2018.03.084.
- [26] H. Alhimali, T. Jafary, A. Al-Mamun, M.S. Baawain, G.R. Vakili-Nezhaad, M. Said Baawain, G. Reza Vakili-Nezhaad, New insights into the application of microbial desalination cells for desalination and bioelectricity generation, Biofuel Res. J. 24 (2019) 1090 e 1099, https://doi.org/10.18331/BRJ2019.6.4.5.
- [27] A. Al-Mamun, W. Ahmad, M.S. Baawain, M. Khadem, B.R. Dhar, A review of microbial desalination cell technology: con /uniFB01 gurations, optimization and applications, J. Clean. Prod. 183 (2018) 458 e 480, https://doi.org/10.1016/ j.jclepro.2018.02.054.
- [28] T. Jafary, A. Al-Mamun, H. Alhimali, M.S. Baawain, S. Rahman, W.A. Tarpeh, B.R. Dhar, B.H. Kim, Novel two-chamber tubular microbial desalination cell for bioelectricity production, wastewater treatment and desalination with a focus on self-generated pH control, Desalination 481 (2020), 114358, https:// doi.org/10.1016/j.desal.2020.114358.
- [29] A. Al Hinai, T. Jafary, H. Alhimali, S. Rahman, A. Al-Mamun, Desalination and acid-base recovery in a novel design of microbial desalination and chemical recovery cell, Desalination 525 (2022), 115488, https://doi.org/10.1016/ j.desal.2021.115488.
- [30] T. Jafary, W.R.W.R. Wan Daud, M. Ghasemi, M.H.M.H. Abu Bakar, M. Sedighi, B.H.B.H. Kim, A.A.A.A. Carmona-Martínez, J.M. Jahim, M. Ismail, Clean hydrogen production in a full biological microbial electrolysis cell, Int. J. Hydrogen Energy (2018) 1 e 8, https://doi.org/10.1016/ j.ijhydene.2018.01.010.
- [31] M.J. Al Lawati, T. Jafary, M.S. Baawain, A. Al-Mamun, A mini review on biofouling on air cathode of single chamber microbial fuel cell; prevention and mitigation strategies, Biocatal. Agric. Biotechnol. 22 (2019), 101370, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bcab.2019.101370.
- [32] T. Jafary, W.R.W. Daud, S.A. Aljlil, A.F. Ismail, A. Al-Mamun, M.S. Baawain, M. Ghasemi, Simultaneous organics, sulphate and salt removal in a microbial desalination cell with an insight into microbial communities, Desalination 445 (2018) 204 e 212, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.desal.2018.08.010.
- [33] S. Barua, B.S. Zakaria, T. Chung, F.I. Hai, T. Haile, A. Al-Mamun, B.R. Dhar, Microbial electrolysis followed by chemical precipitation for effective nutrients recovery from digested sludge centrate in WWTPs, Chem. Eng. J. 361 (2019) 256 e 265, https://doi.org/10.1016/J.CEJ.2018.12.067.
- [34] T.H. Chung, M.N.A.A. Meshref, F.I. Hai, A. Al-Mamun, B.R. Dhar, Microbial electrochemical systems for hydrogen peroxide synthesis: critical review of process optimization, prospective environmental applications, and challenges, Bioresour. Technol. 313 (2020), 123727, https://doi.org/10.1016/ J.BIORTECH.2020.123727.
- [35] F. Zhao, F. Harnisch, U. Schroder, F. Scholz, P. Bogdanoff, I. Herrmann, Chal-€ lenges and constraints of using oxygen cathodes in microbial fuel cells, Environ. Sci. Technol. 40 (2006) 5193 e 5199, https://doi.org/10.1021/ES060332P.
- [36] D. Ucar, Y. Zhang, I. Angelidaki, An overview of electron acceptors in microbial fuel cells, Front. Microbiol. 8 (2017) 1 e 14, https://doi.org/10.3389/ fmicb.2017.00643.
- [37] E. Antolini, Photoelectrocatalytic fuel cells and photoelectrode microbial fuel cells for wastewater treatment and power generation, J. Environ. Chem. Eng. 7 (2019), 103241, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jece.2019.103241.
- [38] S. Kumar, W. Ahlawat, G. Bhanjana, S. Heydarifard, M.M. Nazhad, N. Dilbaghi, Nanotechnology-based water treatment strategies, J. Nanosci. Nanotechnol. 14 (2023) 1838 e 1858, https://doi.org/10.1166/jnn.2014.9050.
- [39] V. Hasija, A. Kumar, A. Sudhaik, P. Raizada, P. Singh, $ Quyet, V. Le, T.T. Le, Van-Huy Nguyen, Step-scheme heterojunction photocatalysts for solar energy, water splitting, CO 2 conversion, and bacterial inactivation: a review, Photocatalysts 19 (2021) 2941 e 2966, https://doi.org/10.1007/s10311-02101231-w.
- [40] A. Kumar, P. Raizada, A. Hosseini-Bandegharaei, V.K. Thakur, V.-H. Nguyen, P. Singh, C-, N-Vacancy Defect Engineered Polymeric Carbon Nitride towards Photocatalysis: Viewpoints and Challenges, 2021, https://doi.org/10.1039/ d0ta08384d.
- [41] V. Hasija, P. Raizada, A. Sudhaik, K. Sharma, A. Kumar, P. Singh, S.B. Jonnalagadda, V.K. Thakur, Recent advances in noble metal free doped graphitic carbon nitride based nanohybrids for photocatalysis of organic contaminants in water: a review, Appl. Mater. Today 15 (2019) 494 e 524, https://doi.org/10.1016/J.APMT.2019.04.003.
- [42] A. Baruah, V. Chaudhary, R. Malik, V.K. Tomer, Nanotechnology based solutions for wastewater treatment, Nanotechnol. Water Wastewater Treat. Theory Appl. (2019) 337 e 368, https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-8139028.00017-4.
- [43] M. Devi, S. Praharaj, D. Rout, Industrial problems and solution towards visible light photocatalysis, Nanostructured Mater. Visible Light Photocatal. (2022) 535 e 567, https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-823018-3.00018-X.
- [44] P. Majumdar, D. Pant, S. Patra, Integrated photo-bioelectrochemical systems : a paradigm shift in arti /uniFB01 cial photosynthesis, Trends Biotechnol. (2017) 4 e 7, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tibtech.2017.01.004.
- [45] E.F. Talooki, M. Ghorbani, M. Rahimnejad, M.S. Lashkenari, Evaluation of a visible light-responsive polyaniline nano /uniFB01 ber /C0 cadmium sul /uniFB01 de quantum dots photocathode for simultaneous hexavalent chromium reduction and electricity generation in photo-microbial fuel cell, J. Electroanal. Chem. 873 (2020), 114469, https://doi.org/10.1016/J.JELECHEM.2020.114469.
- [46] F. Studt, I. Sharafutdinov, F. Abild-Pedersen, C.F. Elkjær, J.S. Hummelshøj, S. Dahl, I. Chorkendorff, J.K. Nørskov, Discovery of a Ni-Ga catalyst for carbon dioxide reduction to methanol, Nat. Chem. 6 (2014) 320 e 324, https:// doi.org/10.1038/nchem.1873.
- [47] P. Xu, D. Zheng, Q. He, J. Yu, The feasibility of o /uniFB02 oxacin degradation and electricity generation in photo- assisted microbial fuel cells with LiNbO 3/CF photocatalytic cathode, Separ. Purif. Technol. 250 (2020), 117106, https:// doi.org/10.1016/j.seppur.2020.117106.
- [48] M. Morgante, N. Vlachopoulos, A. Hagfeldt, F. Fischer, Microbial bioelectrochemical cells for hydrogen generation based on irradiated semiconductor photoelectrodes, J. Phys. Energy. 3 (2021), 32012, https://doi.org/ 10.1088/2515-7655/AC01BD.
- [49] M.B. Tahir, M.F. Malik, A. Ahmed, T. Nawaz, M. Ijaz, H.S. Min, S. Muhammad, S.M. Siddeeg, Semiconductor based nanomaterials for harvesting green hydrogen energy under solar light irradiation, Int. J. Environ. Anal. Chem. 101 (2021) 2255 e 2271, https://doi.org/10.1080/03067319.2019.1700970.
- [50] F. Fischer, Photoelectrode , photovoltaic and photosynthetic microbial fuel cells, Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 90 (2018) 16 e 27, https://doi.org/10.1016/ j.rser.2018.03.053.
- [51] P. Gupta, M.T. Noori, A.E. Núnez, ~ N. Verma, An insight into the bioelectrochemical photoreduction of CO2 to value-added chemicals, iScience 24 (2021), 102294, https://doi.org/10.1016/J.ISCI.2021.102294.
- [52] Z. Xu, S. Chen, S. Guo, D. Wan, H. Xu, W. Yan, X. Jin, J. Feng, New insights in light-assisted microbial fuel cells for wastewater treatment and power generation: a win-win cooperation, J. Power Sources 501 (2021), 230000, https://doi.org/10.1016/J.JPOWSOUR.2021.230000.
- [53] R. Ra /uniFB01 eenia, M. Sulonen, M. Mahmoud, F. El-Gohary, C.A. Rossa, Integration of microbial electrochemical systems and photocatalysis for sustainable treatment of organic recalcitrant wastewaters: main mechanisms, recent advances, and present prospects, Sci. Total Environ. 824 (2022), 153923, https://doi.org/10.1016/J.SCITOTENV.2022.153923.

- [54] G. Yi, B. Wang, Y. Feng, D. Fang, L. Yang, W. Liu, Y. Zhang, P. Shao, S.G. Pavlostathis, S. Luo, X. Luo, A. Wang, The ins and outs of photo-assisted microbial electrochemical systems for synchronous wastewater treatment and bioenergy recovery, Resour. Conserv. Recycl. 181 (2022), 106230, https://doi.org/10.1016/J.RESCONREC.2022.106230.
- [55] G. Dong, H. Wang, Z. Yan, J. Zhang, X. Ji, M. Lin, R.A. Dahlgren, X. Shang, M. Zhang, Z. Chen, Cadmium sul /uniFB01 de nanoparticles-assisted intimate coupling of microbial and photoelectrochemical processes: mechanisms and environmental applications, Sci. Total Environ. 740 (2020), 140080, https:// doi.org/10.1016/J.SCITOTENV.2020.140080.
- [56] B.E. Logan, B. Hamelers, R. Rozendal, U. Schroder, € J. Keller, S. Freguia, P. Aelterman, W. Verstraete, K. Rabaey, Microbial fuel cells: methodology and technology, Environ. Sci. Technol. 40 (2006) 5181 e 5192, https://doi.org/ 10.1021/es0605016.
- [57] A. Bonnefont, P. Ruvinskiy, M. Rouhet, A. Orfanidi, S. Neophytides, E. Savinova, Advanced catalytic layer architectures for polymer electrolyte membrane fuel cells, Wiley Interdiscip. Rev. Energy Environ. 3 (2014) 505 e 521, https://doi.org/10.1002/wene.110.
- [58] S. Rahman, S.A. Siddiqi, A. Al-Mamun, T. Jafary, Sustainable leachate pretreatment using microbial desalination cell for simultaneous desalination and energy recovery, Desalination 532 (2022), 115708, https://doi.org/ 10.1016/j.desal.2022.115708.
- [59] A. Al-Mamun, Effect of external resistance on microbial electrochemical desalination, sewage treatment, power and resource recovery, Sustain. Energy Technol. Assessments 49 (2022), 101718, https://doi.org/10.1016/ J.SETA.2021.101718.
- [60] H. Rismani-Yazdi, S.M. Carver, A.D. Christy, O.H. Tuovinen, Cathodic limitations in microbial fuel cells: an overview, J. Power Sources 180 (2008) 683 e 694, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2008.02.074.
- [61] P. Clauwaert, P. Aelterman, T.H. Pham, L. De Schamphelaire, M. Carballa, K. Rabaey, W. Verstraete, Minimizing losses in bio-electrochemical systems: the road to applications, Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 79 (2008) 901 e 913, https://doi.org/10.1007/s00253-008-1522-2.
- [62] R.A. Rozendal, H.V.M. Hamelers, K. Rabaey, J. Keller, C.J.N. Buisman, Towards practical implementation of bioelectrochemical wastewater treatment, Trends Biotechnol. 26 (2008) 450 e 459, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tibtech.2008.04.008.
- [63] E. Yang, M.J. Choi, K.Y. Kim, K.J. Chae, I.S. Kim, Effect of initial salt concentrations on cell performance and distribution of internal resistance in microbial desalination cells, Environ. Technol. 36 (2015) 852 e 860, https:// doi.org/10.1080/09593330.2014.964333.
- [64] K. Lawson, R. Rossi, J.M. Regan, B.E. Logan, Impact of cathodic electron acceptor on microbial fuel cell internal resistance, Bioresour. Technol. 316 (2020), 123919, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biortech.2020.123919.
- [65] A.E. Franks, K.P. Nevin, Microbial fuel cells, a current review, Energies 3 (2010) 899 e 919, https://doi.org/10.3390/en3050899.
- [66] M. Yu, W. Yang, X. Yuan, Y. Li, N. Li, W. He, Y. Feng, J. Liu, Enhanced oxygen reduction activity and high-quality ef /uniFB02 uent of membrane /uniFB01 ltration electrodes with Prussian blue in microbial fuel cells, Sci. Total Environ. 753 (2021), 142021, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.142021.
- [67] C. Santoro, M.R. Talarposhti, M. Kodali, R. Gokhale, A. Serov, I. MerinoJimenez, I. Ieropoulos, P. Atanassov, Microbial desalination cells with ef /uniFB01 -cient platinum-group-metal-free cathode catalysts, Chemelectrochem 4 (2017) 3322 e 3330, https://doi.org/10.1002/celc.201700626.
- [68] R. Lin, H. Wang, Y. Zhu, Optimizing the structural design of cathode catalyst layer for PEM fuel cells for improving mass-speci /uniFB01 c power density, Energy 221 (2021), 119909, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2021.119909.
- [69] K. Talukdar, S. Delgado, T. Lagarteira, P. Gazdzicki, K.A. Friedrich, Minimizing mass-transport loss in proton exchange membrane fuel cell by freeze-drying of cathode catalyst layers, J. Power Sources 427 (2019) 309 e 317, https:// doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2019.04.094.
- [70] D. Pant, A. Singh, G. Van Bogaert, Y.A. Gallego, L. Diels, K. Vanbroekhoven, An introduction to the life cycle assessment (LCA) of bioelectrochemical systems (BES) for sustainable energy and product generation: relevance and key aspects, Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 15 (2011) 1305 e 1313, https://doi.org/ 10.1016/j.rser.2010.10.005.
- [71] S. Kondaveeti, B. Min, Nitrate reduction with biotic and abiotic cathodes at various cell voltages in bioelectrochemical denitri /uniFB01 cation system, Bioproc. Biosyst. Eng. 36 (2013) 231 e 238, https://doi.org/10.1007/S00449-012-07790/FIGURES/6.
- [72] M.J. Choi, E. Yang, H.W. Yu, I.S. Kim, S.E. Oh, K.J. Chae, Transition metal/ carbon nanoparticle composite catalysts as platinum substitutes for bioelectrochemical hydrogen production using microbial electrolysis cells, Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 44 (2019) 2258 e 2265, https://doi.org/10.1016/ J.IJHYDENE.2018.07.020.
- [73] M. Peiravi, S.R. Mote, M.K. Mohanty, J. Liu, Bioelectrochemical treatment of acid mine drainage (AMD) from an abandoned coal mine under aerobic condition, J. Hazard Mater. 333 (2017) 329 e 338, https://doi.org/10.1016/ J.JHAZMAT.2017.03.045.
- [74] S. Stariha, K. Artyushkova, M.J. Workman, A. Serov, S. Mckinney, B. Halevi, P. Atanassov, PGM-free Fe-N-C catalysts for oxygen reduction reaction: catalyst layer design, J. Power Sources 326 (2016) 43 e 49, https://doi.org/ 10.1016/j.jpowsour.2016.06.098.
- [75] S.Y. Sawant, T.H. Han, M.H. Cho, Metal-free carbon-based materials: promising electrocatalysts for oxygen reduction reaction in microbial fuel cells, Int. J. Mol. Sci. 18 (2017), https://doi.org/10.3390/ijms18010025.
- [76] L. Osmieri, J. Park, D.A. Cullen, P. Zelenay, D.J. Myers, K.C. Neyerlin, Status and challenges for the application of platinum group metal-free catalysts in proton-exchange membrane fuel cells, Curr. Opin. Electrochem. 25 (2021), 100627, https://doi.org/10.1016/J.COELEC.2020.08.009.
- [77] F. Qian, G. Wang, Y. Li, Solar-driven microbial photoelectrochemical cells with a nanowire photocathode, Nano Lett. 10 (2010) 4686 e 4691, https:// doi.org/10.1021/nl102977n.
- [78] M.B. Tahir, Microbial photoelectrochemical cell for improved hydrogen evolution using nickel ferrite incorporated WO3 under visible light irradiation, Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 44 (2019) 17316 e 17322, https://doi.org/ 10.1016/j.ijhydene.2019.01.067.
- [79] K. Rajeshwar, Fundamentals of semiconductor electrochemistry and photoelectrochemistry, in: Encycl. Electrochem., Wiley-VCH Verlag, 2007, p. 52, https://doi.org/10.1002/9783527610426.bard060001.
- [80] S. Yan, Y. Shi, Y. Tao, H. Zhang, Enhanced persulfate-mediated photocatalytic oxidation of bisphenol A using bioelectricity and a g-C3N4/Fe2O3 heterojunction, Chem. Eng. J. 359 (2019) 933 e 943, https://doi.org/10.1016/ j.cej.2018.11.093.
- [81] L. Zeng, X. Li, S. Fan, Z. Yin, M. Zhang, J. Mu, M. Qin, T. Lian, M. Tade, S. Liu, /C19 Enhancing interfacial charge transfer on novel 3D/1D multidimensional MoS 2/TiO 2 heterojunction toward ef /uniFB01 cient photoelectrocatalytic removal of levo /uniFB02 oxacin, Electrochim. Acta 295 (2019) 810 e 821, https://doi.org/ 10.1016/j.electacta.2018.10.153.
- [82] X. Li, J. Yu, M. Jaroniec, Hierarchical photocatalysts, Chem. Soc. Rev. 45 (2016) 2603 e 2636, https://doi.org/10.1039/c5cs00838g.
- [83] L. Zhang, M. Jaroniec, Toward designing semiconductor-semiconductor heterojunctions for photocatalytic applications, Appl. Surf. Sci. 430 (2018) 2 e 17, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2017.07.192.
- [84] L. Zhou, L. Wang, J. Zhang, J. Lei, Y. Liu, The preparation, and applications of gC3N4/TiO2 heterojunction catalysts d a review, Res. Chem. Intermed. 43 (2017) 2081 e 2101, https://doi.org/10.1007/s11164-016-2748-8.
- [85] M.Z. Rahman, K. Davey, S.Z. Qiao, Carbon, nitrogen and phosphorus containing metal-free photocatalysts for hydrogen production: progress and challenges, J. Mater. Chem. A. 6 (2018) 1305 e 1322, https://doi.org/10.1039/ c7ta10404a.
- [86] A. Kumar, P. Raizada, P. Singh, R.V. Saini, A.K. Saini, A. Hosseini-Bandegharaei, Perspective and status of polymeric graphitic carbon nitride based Z-scheme photocatalytic systems for sustainable photocatalytic water puri /uniFB01 cation, Chem. Eng. J. 391 (2020), 123496, https://doi.org/10.1016/J.CEJ.2019.123496.
- [87] O.A. Arotiba, B.O. Orimolade, B.A. Koiki, Visible light e driven photoelectrocatalytic semiconductor heterojunction anodes for water treatment applications, Curr. Opin. Electrochem. 22 (2020) 25 e 34, https://doi.org/ 10.1016/J.COELEC.2020.03.018.
- [88] J. Li, H. Yuan, W. Zhang, B. Jin, Q. Feng, J. Huang, Z. Jiao, Advances in Z-scheme semiconductor photocatalysts for the photoelectrochemical applications: a review, Carbon Energy 4 (2022) 294 e 331, https://doi.org/10.1002/cey2.179.
- [89] V. Hasija, A. Kumar, A. Sudhaik, P. Raizada, P. Singh, Q. Van Le, T.T. Le, V.H. Nguyen, Step-scheme heterojunction photocatalysts for solar energy, water splitting, CO2 conversion, and bacterial inactivation: a review, Environ. Chem. Lett. 19 (2021) 2941 e 2966, https://doi.org/10.1007/s10311-02101231-w.
- [90] S.J.A.A. Moniz, S.A. Shevlin, D.J. Martin, Z.X. Guo, J. Tang, Visible-light driven heterojunction photocatalysts for water splitting e a critical review, Energy Environ. Sci. 8 (2015) 731 e 759, https://doi.org/10.1039/C4EE03271C.
- [91] H. Wang, L. Zhang, Z. Chen, J. Hu, S. Li, Z. Wang, J. Liu, X. Wang, Semiconductor heterojunction photocatalysts: design, construction, and photocatalytic performances, This J. Is Cite This Chem. Soc. Rev. 5234 (2014) 5234, https://doi.org/10.1039/c4cs00126e.
- [92] M. Nasr, C. Eid, R. Habchi, P. Miele, M. Bechelany, Recent progress on titanium dioxide nanomaterials for photocatalytic applications, ChemSusChem 11 (2018) 3023 e 3047, https://doi.org/10.1002/CSSC.201800874.
- [93] H. Dong, G. Zeng, L. Tang, C. Fan, C. Zhang, X. He, Y. He, An overview on limitations of TiO2-based particles for photocatalytic degradation of organic pollutants and the corresponding countermeasures, Water Res. 79 (2015) 128 e 146, https://doi.org/10.1016/J.WATRES.2015.04.038.
- [94] K. Yadav, S.S. Raut, T.U. Patro, A.C. Abhyankar, P.S. Kulkarni, Annealing temperature- and morphology-controlled development of nickel cobaltite nanoneedles for photocatalytic degradation of nitroaromatics, Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 61 (2022) 4273 e 4285, https://doi.org/10.1021/ ACS.IECR.1C05046/ASSET/IMAGES/LARGE/IE1C05046\_0011.JPEG.
- [95] A. Suguna, S. Prabhu, M. Selvaraj, M. Geerthana, A. Silambarasan, M. Navaneethan, R. Ramesh, C. Sridevi, Annealing effect on photocatalytic activity of ZnO nanostructures for organic dye degradation, J. Mater. Sci. Mater. Electron. 33 (2022) 8868 e 8879, https://doi.org/10.1007/S10854-02106942-Y/FIGURES/12.
- [96] M.M.E. Khan, M.M.E. Khan, B.-K. Min, M.H. Cho, Microbial fuel cell assisted band gap narrowed TiO2 for visible light-induced photocatalytic activities and power generation, Sci. Rep. 8 (2018) 1723, https://doi.org/10.1038/ s41598-018-19617-2.
- [97] G.D. Bhowmick, M.T. Noori, I. Das, B. Neethu, M.M. Ghangrekar, A. Mitra, Bismuth doped TiO2 as an excellent photocathode catalyst to enhance the performance of microbial fuel cell, Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 43 (2018) 7501 e 7510, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2018.02.188.
- [98] C. Wang, X. Zhang, Y. Liu, Promotion of multi-electron transfer for enhanced photocatalysis: a review focused on oxygen reduction reaction, in: Appl.

Surf. Sci., Elsevier B.V., 2015, pp. 28 e 45, https://doi.org/10.1016/ j.apsusc.2015.08.055.

- [99] D. Tian, H. Zhou, H. Zhang, P. Zhou, J. You, G. Yao, Z. Pan, Y. Liu, B. Lai, Heterogeneous photocatalyst-driven persulfate activation process under visible light irradiation: from basic catalyst design principles to novel enhancement strategies, Chem. Eng. J. 428 (2022), 131166, https://doi.org/ 10.1016/J.CEJ.2021.131166.
- [100] S. Guo, S. Dong, Graphene nanosheet: synthesis, molecular engineering, thin /uniFB01 lm, hybrids, and energy and analytical applications, Chem. Soc. Rev. 40 (2011) 2644 e 2672, https://doi.org/10.1039/c0cs00079e.
- [101] S. Zhu, D. Wang, Photocatalysis: basic principles, diverse forms of implementations and emerging scienti /uniFB01 c opportunities, Adv. Energy Mater. 7 (2017), 1700841, https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.201700841.
- [102] J. Xu, Y. Ao, D. Fu, C. Yuan, Synthesis of Bi2O3-TiO2 composite /uniFB01 lm with highphotocatalytic activity under sunlight irradiation, Appl. Surf. Sci. 255 (2008) 2365 e 2369, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2008.07.095.
- [103] S.-S. Wang, H.M. Adeel Sharif, H.-Y. Cheng, A.-J. Wang, Bioelectrochemical system integrated with photocatalysis: principle and prospect in wastewater treatment, in: Bioelectrochemistry Stimul. Environ. Remediat., Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd, 2018, pp. 227 e 244, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-98110-8542-0.
- [104] Y. Hou, Y. Gan, Z. Yu, X. Chen, L. Qian, B. Zhang, L. Huang, J. Huang, Solar promoted azo dye degradation and energy production in the biophotoelectrochemical system with a g-C 3 N 4/BiOBr heterojunction photocathode, J. Power Sources 371 (2017) 26 e 34, https://doi.org/10.1016/ j.jpowsour.2017.10.033.
- [105] S. Wang, X. Yang, Y. Zhu, Y. Su, C. Li, Solar-assisted dual chamber microbial fuel cell with a CuInS2 photocathode, RSC Adv. 4 (2014) 23790 e 23796, https://doi.org/10.1039/c4ra02488e.
- [106] Y. Shan, J. Cui, Y. Liu, W. Zhao, TiO2 anchored on MoS2 nanosheets based on molybdenite exfoliation as an ef /uniFB01 cient cathode for enhanced Cr (VI) reduction in microbial fuel cell, Environ. Res. 190 (2020), 110010.
- [107] S. Rahman, T. Jafary, A. Al-Mamun, M.S. Baawain, M.R. Choudhury, H. Alhaimali, S.A. Siddiqi, B.R. Dhar, A. Sana, S.S. Lam, M. Aghbashlo, M. Tabatabaei, Towards upscaling microbial desalination cell technology: a comprehensive review on current challenges and future prospects, J. Clean. Prod. 288 (2021), 125597, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2020.125597.
- [108] H. Han, C. Shi, L. Yuan, G. Sheng, Enhancement of methyl orange degradation and power generation in a photoelectrocatalytic microbial fuel cell, Appl. Energy 204 (2017) 382 e 389, https://doi.org/10.1016/ j.apenergy.2017.07.032.
- [109] X. Long, H. Wang, C. Wang, X. Cao, X. Li, Enhancement of azo dye degradation and power generation in a photoelectrocatalytic microbial fuel cell by simple cathodic reduction on titania nanotube arrays electrode, J. Power Sources 415 (2019) 145 e 153, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2019.01.069.
- [110] Y. Wang, X. Shang, J. Shen, Z. Zhang, D. Wang, J. Lin, J.C.S.S. Wu, X. Fu, X. Wang, C. Li, Direct and indirect Z-scheme heterostructure-coupled photosystem enabling cooperation of CO2 reduction and H2O oxidation, Nat. Commun. 111 (2020) 1 e 11, https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-02016742-3.
- [111] W. Zhang, A.R. Mohamed, W.J. Ong, Z-scheme photocatalytic systems for carbon dioxide reduction: where are we now? Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 59 (2020) 22894 e 22915, https://doi.org/10.1002/ANIE.201914925.
- [112] Z. Zhu, M. Murugananthan, J. Gu, Y. Zhang, Fabrication of a Z-scheme gC3N4/Fe-TiO2 photocatalytic composite with enhanced photocatalytic activity under visible light irradiation, Catalysts 8 (2018), https://doi.org/ 10.3390/catal8030112.
- [113] X. Liu, N. Chen, Y. Li, D. Deng, X. Xing, Y. Wang, A general nonaqueous sol-gel route to g-C3N4-coupling photocatalysts: the case of Z-scheme g-C3N4/TiO2 with enhanced photodegradation toward RhB under visible-light, Sci. Rep. 6 (2016) 1 e 16, https://doi.org/10.1038/srep39531.
- [114] Y. He, K. Chen, M.K.H. Leung, Y. Zhang, L. Li, G. Li, J. Xuan, J. Li, Photocatalytic fuel cell e a review, Chem. Eng. J. 428 (2022), 131074, https://doi.org/ 10.1016/J.CEJ.2021.131074.
- [115] L. Zhang, M. Jaroniec, Fundamentals of adsorption for photocatalysis, Interface Sci. Technol. 31 (2020) 39 e 62, https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-08102890-2.00002-6.
- [116] T.D. Nguyen-Phan, V.H. Pham, E.W. Shin, H.D. Pham, S. Kim, J.S. Chung, E.J. Kim, S.H. Hur, The role of graphene oxide content on the adsorptionenhanced photocatalysis of titanium dioxide/graphene oxide composites, Chem. Eng. J. 170 (2011) 226 e 232, https://doi.org/10.1016/ J.CEJ.2011.03.060.
- [117] D. Pathania, S. Sharma, P. Singh, Removal of methylene blue by adsorption onto activated carbon developed from Ficus carica bast, Arab. J. Chem. 10 (2017) S1445 e S1451, https://doi.org/10.1016/J.ARABJC.2013.04.021.
- [118] C. Liu, H. Huang, W. Cui, F. Dong, Y. Zhang, Band structure engineering and ef /uniFB01 cient charge transport in oxygen substituted g-C3N4 for superior photocatalytic hydrogen evolution, Appl. Catal. B Environ. 230 (2018) 115 e 124, https://doi.org/10.1016/J.APCATB.2018.02.038.
- [119] G. Mamba, A.K. Mishra, Graphitic carbon nitride (g-C3N4) nanocomposites: a new and exciting generation of visible light driven photocatalysts for environmental pollution remediation, Appl. Catal. B Environ. 198 (2016) 347 e 377, https://doi.org/10.1016/J.APCATB.2016.05.052.
- [120] H. Zheng, Y. Liu, Y. Zhou, D. Zhao, D. Wang, L. Yun, D. Zhang, L. Zhang, Improved photocathodic protection performance of g-C3N4/rGO/ZnS for 304
- stainless steel, J. Phys. Chem. Solid. 148 (2021), 109672, https://doi.org/ 10.1016/J.JPCS.2020.109672.
- [121] S. Jiaqi, L. Lifen, Y. Fenglin, Successful bio-electrochemical treatment of nitrogenous mariculture wastewater by enhancing nitrogen removal via synergy of algae and cathodic photo-electro-catalysis, Sci. Total Environ. 743 (2020), 140738, https://doi.org/10.1016/J.SCITOTENV.2020.140738.
- [122] H. Guo, Y. Zhang, S. Wang, L. Li, W. Wang, Q. Sun, In-situ generation of Bi2S3 to construct WO3/BiVO4/Bi2S3 heterojunction for photocathodic protection of 304SS, J. Electroanal. Chem. 907 (2022), 116033, https://doi.org/10.1016/ J.JELECHEM.2022.116033.
- [123] H. Wang, B. Zhang, J. Xi, F. Zhao, B. Zeng, Z-scheme I-BiOCl/CdS with abundant oxygen vacancies as highly effective cathodic material for photocathodic immunoassay, Biosens. Bioelectron. 141 (2019), 111443, https:// doi.org/10.1016/J.BIOS.2019.111443.
- [124] H. Yuan, Z. He, Graphene-modi /uniFB01 ed electrodes for enhancing the performance of microbial fuel cells, Nanoscale 7 (2015) 7022 e 7029, https:// doi.org/10.1039/c4nr05637j.
- [125] H. Miao, G. Zhang, X. Hu, J. Mu, T. Han, J. Fan, C. Zhu, L. Song, J. Bai, X. Hou, A novel strategy to prepare 2D g-C3N4nanosheets and their photoelectrochemical properties, J. Alloys Compd. 690 (2017) 669 e 676, https:// doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2016.08.184.
- [126] L. Huang, S. Song, Z. Cai, P. Zhou, G.L. Puma, G. Li Puma, Ef /uniFB01 cient conversion of bicarbonate (HCO3 /C0 ) to acetate and simultaneous heavy metal Cr(VI) removal in photo-assisted microbial electrosynthesis systems combining WO3/MoO3/g-C3N4 heterojunctions and Serratia marcescens electrotroph, Chem. Eng. J. 406 (2021), 126786, https://doi.org/10.1016/J.CEJ.2020.126786.
- [127] Z. Zhu, F. Zhou, S. Zhan, N. Huang, Q. He, Enhancement of g-C3N4 cathode for inactivation of marine microorganisms in ZnWO4 photocatalytic system, Appl. Surf. Sci. 456 (2018) 156 e 163, https://doi.org/10.1016/J.APSUSC.2018.06.063.
- [128] J. Xu, M. Shalom, F. Piersimoni, M. Antonietti, D. Neher, T.J.K. Brenner, Colortunable photoluminescence and NIR electroluminescence in carbon nitride thin /uniFB01 lms and light-emitting diodes, Adv. Opt. Mater. 3 (2015) 913 e 917, https://doi.org/10.1002/adom.201500019.
- [129] J. Zhang, M. Zhang, L. Lin, X. Wang, Sol processing of conjugated carbon nitride powders for thin/uniFB01 lm fabrication, Angew. Chem. 127 (2015) 6395 e 6399, https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201501001.
- [130] X. Meng, Z. Zhang, Bismuth-based photocatalytic semiconductors: introduction, challenges and possible approaches, J. Mol. Catal. Chem. 423 (2016) 533 e 549, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.molcata.2016.07.030.
- [131] X. Wang, Y. Zhang, C. Zhou, D. Huo, R. Zhang, L. Wang, Hydroxyl-regulated BiOI nanosheets with a highly positive valence band maximum for improved visible-light photocatalytic performance, Appl. Catal. B Environ. 268 (2020), 118390, https://doi.org/10.1016/J.APCATB.2019.118390.
- [132] Y. Bai, T. Chen, P. Wang, L. Wang, L. Ye, Bismuth-rich Bi4O5X2 (X ¼ Br, and I) nanosheets with dominant {1 0 1} facets exposure for photocatalytic H2 evolution, Chem. Eng. J. 304 (2016) 454 e 460, https://doi.org/10.1016/ J.CEJ.2016.06.100.
- [133] W. Liu, Y. Shang, A. Zhu, P. Tan, Y. Liu, L. Qiao, D. Chu, X. Xiong, J. Pan, Enhanced performance of doped BiOCl nanoplates for photocatalysis: understanding from doping insight into improved spatial carrier separation, J. Mater. Chem. A. 5 (2017), 12542, https://doi.org/10.1039/c7ta02724a.
- [134] K. Liu, X. Zhang, C. Zhang, G. Ren, Z. Zheng, Z. Lv, C. Fan, Enhanced photocatalytic reduction of CO 2 to CO over BiOBr assisted by phenolic resin-based activated carbon spheres, RSC Adv. 9 (2019), 14391, https://doi.org/10.1039/ c9ra01329f.
- [135] P. Li, Z. Zhou, Q. Wang, M. Guo, S. Chen, J. Low, R. Long, W. Liu, P. Ding, Y. Wu, Y. Xiong, Visible-light-driven nitrogen /uniFB01 xation catalyzed by Bi5O7Br nanostructures: enhanced performance by oxygen vacancies, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 142 (2020) 12430 e 12439, https://doi.org/10.1021/JACS.0C05097/SUPPL\_ FILE/JA0C05097\_SI\_001.PDF.
- [136] Y. Yu, Q. Zhou, J. Wang, The ultra-rapid synthesis of 2D graphitic carbon nitride nanosheets via direct microwave heating for /uniFB01 eld emission, Chem. Commun. 52 (2016) 3396 e 3399, https://doi.org/10.1039/c5cc10258h.
- [137] R. Zhou, M. Jaroniec, S.Z. Qiao, Nitrogen-doped carbon electrocatalysts decorated with transition metals for the oxygen reduction reaction, ChemCatChem 7 (2015) 3808 e 3817, https://doi.org/10.1002/CCTC.201500411.
- [138] K. Chang, X. Hai, J. Ye, Transition metal disul /uniFB01 des as noble-metal-alternative Co-catalysts for solar hydrogen production, Adv. Energy Mater. 6 (2016), 1502555, https://doi.org/10.1002/AENM.201502555.
- [139] G. Maduraiveeran, M. Sasidharan, W. Jin, Earth-abundant transition metal and metal oxide nanomaterials: synthesis and electrochemical applications, Prog. Mater. Sci. 106 (2019), 100574, https://doi.org/10.1016/ J.PMATSCI.2019.100574.
- [140] S.X. Zou, Y. Zhang, X. Zou, Noble metal-free hydrogen evolution catalysts for water splitting, Chem. Soc. Rev. 44 (2015) 5148, https://doi.org/10.1039/ c4cs00448e.
- [141] N. Sangiorgi, G. Tuci, A. Sanson, M. Peruzzini, G. Giambastiani, Metal-free carbon-based materials for electrocatalytic and photo-electrocatalytic CO2 reduction, Rend. Lincei. 30 (2019) 497 e 513, https://doi.org/10.1007/S12210019-00830-8/FIGURES/8.
- [142] C. Hu, R. Paul, Q. Dai, L. Dai, Carbon-based metal-free electrocatalysts: from oxygen reduction to multifunctional electrocatalysis, Chem. Soc. Rev. 50 (2021) 11785 e 11843, https://doi.org/10.1039/D1CS00219H.
- [143] X. Yang, L. Sheng, Y. Ye, J. Sun, Z. Li, X. Ning, J. Cao, X. Sun, Recent advances in metal-free CDs/g-C3N4 photocatalysts : synthetic strategies , mechanism

insight , and applications, J. Mater. Sci. Technol. (2022), https://doi.org/ 10.1016/j.jmst.2022.10.092.

- [144] S. Tasleem, M. Tahir, Current trends in strategies to improve photocatalytic performance of perovskites materials for solar to hydrogen production, Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 132 (2020), 110073, https://doi.org/10.1016/ J.RSER.2020.110073.
- [145] S. Pan, J. Li, Z. Wen, R. Lu, Q. Zhang, H. Jin, L. Zhang, Y. Chen, S. Wang, S. Pan, J. Li, Z. Wen, R. Lu, Q. Zhang, H. Jin, L. Zhang, Y. Chen, S. Wang, Halide perovskite materials for photo(Electro)Chemical applications: dimensionality, heterojunction, and performance, Adv. Energy Mater. 12 (2022), 2004002, https://doi.org/10.1002/AENM.202004002.
- [146] H. Bian, D. Li, J. Yan, S. Frank Liu, Perovskite e a wonder catalyst for solar hydrogen production, J. Energy Chem. 57 (2021) 325 e 340, https://doi.org/ 10.1016/J.JECHEM.2020.08.057.
- [147] A. Guerrero, J. Bisquert, Perovskite semiconductors for photoelectrochemical water splitting applications, Curr. Opin. Electrochem. 2 (2017) 144 e 147, https://doi.org/10.1016/J.COELEC.2017.04.003.
- [148] P. Dhiman, G. Rana, R.A. Alshgari, A. Kumar, G. Sharma, M. Naushad, Z.A. Alothman, Magnetic Ni e Zn ferrite anchored on g-C3N4 as nanophotocatalyst for ef /uniFB01 cient photo-degradation of doxycycline from water, Environ. Res. 216 (2023), 114665, https://doi.org/10.1016/ J.ENVRES.2022.114665.
- [149] M. Rashid, W. Hassan, M. Aadil, H.H. Somaily, N.M. Mahdi, R. Lataef, A.G. Taki, K. Srithilat, D.F. Baamer, S.M. Albukhari, M.A. Salam, A. llyas, Solar-lightdriven and magnetically recoverable doped nano-ferrite: an ideal photocatalyst for water puri /uniFB01 cation applications, Opt. Mater. 135 (2023), 113192, https://doi.org/10.1016/J.OPTMAT.2022.113192.
- [150] C. Arbizzani, S. Beninati, E. Manferrari, F. Soavi, M. Mastragostino, Electrodeposited PtRu on cryogel carbon e Na on /uniFB01 supports for DMFC anodes, J. Power Sources 161 (2006) 826 e 830, https://doi.org/10.1016/ J.JPOWSOUR.2006.05.010.
- [151] C. Laberty, F. Zhao, K.E. Swider-Lyons, A.V. Virkar, High-performance solid oxide fuel cell cathodes with lanthanum-nickelate-based composites, Electrochem. Solid State Lett. 10 (2007) B170 e B174, https://doi.org/10.1149/ 1.2760188.
- [152] Y. Gong, D. Palacio, X. Song, R.L. Patel, X. Liang, X. Zhao, J.B. Goodenough, K. Huang, Stabilizing nanostructured solid oxide fuel cell cathode with atomic layer deposition, Nano Lett. 13 (2013) 4340 e 4345, https://doi.org/ 10.1021/NL402138W/SUPPL\_FILE/NL402138W\_SI\_001.PDF.
- [153] B. Wang, H. Zhang, X.Y. Lu, J. Xuan, M.K.H. Leung, Solar photocatalytic fuel cell using CdS e TiO2 photoanode and air-breathing cathode for wastewater treatment and simultaneous electricity production, Chem. Eng. J. 253 (2014) 174 e 182, https://doi.org/10.1016/J.CEJ.2014.05.041.
- [154] Z. Zheng, F. Yang, C. Lin, F. Zhu, S. Shen, G. Wei, J. Zhang, Design of gradient cathode catalyst layer (CCL) structure for mitigating Pt degradation in proton exchange membrane fuel cells (PEMFCs) using mathematical method, J. Power Sources 451 (2020), 227729, https://doi.org/10.1016/ j.jpowsour.2020.227729.
- [155] S.S. Kocha, Electrochemical degradation: electrocatalyst and support durability, in: Polym. Electrolyte Fuel Cell Degrad, Elsevier, 2011, pp. 89 e 214, https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-386936-4.10003-X.
- [156] B. Chi, S. Hou, G. Liu, Y. Deng, J. Zeng, H. Song, S. Liao, J. Ren, Tuning hydrophobic-hydrophilic balance of cathode catalyst layer to improve cell performance of proton exchange membrane fuel cell (PEMFC) by mixing polytetra /uniFB02 uoroethylene (PTFE), Electrochim. Acta 277 (2018) 110 e 115, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2018.04.213.
- [157] Q. Zhu, X. Wang, J. Hu, S. Chen, S. Hu, Y. Wu, B. Liu, K. Xiao, S. Liang, J. Yang, H. Hou, Ef /uniFB01 cient degradation of refractory pollutant in a microbial fuel cell with novel hybrid photocatalytic air-cathode: intimate coupling of microbial and photocatalytic processes, Bioresour. Technol. 340 (2021), 125717, https://doi.org/10.1016/J.BIORTECH.2021.125717.
- [158] T. Guohui, F. Honggang, J. Liqiang, X. Baifu, P. Kai, Preparation and characterization of stable biphase TiO2 photocatalyst with high crystallinity, large surface area, and enhanced photoactivity, J. Phys. Chem. C 112 (2008) 3083 e 3089, https://doi.org/10.1021/JP710283P/SUPPL\_FILE/JP710283PFILE002.PDF.
- [159] Z. Sun, R. Cao, M. Huang, D. Chen, W. Zheng, L. Lin, Effect of light irradiation on the photoelectricity performance of microbial fuel cell with a copper oxide nanowire photocathode, J. Photochem. Photobiol. Chem. 300 (2015) 38 e 43, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jphotochem.2014.12.003.
- [160] Q. Wang, Z. Cai, L. Huang, Y. Pan, X. Quan, G. Li Puma, G. Li, Intensi /uniFB01 ed degradation and mineralization of antibiotic metronidazole in photoassisted microbial fuel cells with Mo-W catalytic cathodes under anaerobic or aerobic conditions in the presence of Fe(III), Chem. Eng. J. 376 (2018) 1 e 14, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2018.07.168.
- [161] P. Xu, D. Zheng, Z. Xie, Q. He, J. Yu, The degradation of ibuprofen in a novel microbial fuel cell with PANi@CNTs/SS bio-anode and CuInS2 photocatalytic cathode: property, ef /uniFB01 ciency and mechanism, J. Clean. Prod. 265 (2020), 121872, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2020.121872.
- [162] R. Tajdid, S. Aber, K. Nofouzi, Ef /uniFB01 cient improvement of microbial fuel cell performance by the modi /uniFB01 cation of graphite cathode via electrophoretic deposition of CuO/ZnO, Mater. Chem. Phys. 240 (2020), 122208, https:// doi.org/10.1016/j.matchemphys.2019.122208.
- [163] H.-X. Han, C. Shi, N. Zhang, L. Yuan, G.P. Sheng, Visible-light-enhanced Cr(VI) reduction at Pd-decorated silicon nanowire photocathode in
- photoelectrocatalytic microbial fuel cell, Sci. Total Environ. 639 (2018) 1512 e 1519, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scitotenv.2018.05.271.
- [164] Y. Jia, D. Zhang, H. You, W. Li, K. Jiang, Benthic microbial fuel cell equipped with a photocatalytic Cu 2 O-coated cathode, J. Nanoparticle Res. 21 (2019) 1 e 10, https://doi.org/10.1007/S11051-018-4444-7/TABLES/1.
- [165] S. Louki, N. eddine Touach, A. Benzaouak, M.J. Salar-García, V.M. OrtizMartínez, F.J. Hernandez-Fernandez, A.P. de los Ríos, M. El Mahi, E.M. Lot /C19 /C19 /uniFB01 , Preparation of new ferroelectric Li0.95Ta0.57Nb0.38Cu0.15O3 materials as photocatalysts in microbial fuel cells, Can, J. Chem. Eng. 96 (2018) 1656 e 1662, https://doi.org/10.1002/cjce.23117.
- [166] A. Benzaouak, N. Touach, A.P.D.L. Ríos, M. El Mahi, E. Mostapha, Ferroelectric solid solution Li 1 /C0 x Ta 1 /C0 x W x O 3 as potential photocatalysts in microbial fuel cells : effect of the W content, Microbial Fuel Cell 26 (2018) 1985 e 1991, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cjche.2018.02.008.
- [167] M.J. Ahmed, B.H. Hameed, Ecotoxicology and Environmental Safety Removal of emerging pharmaceutical contaminants by adsorption in a /uniFB01 xed- bed column : a review, Ecotoxicol. Environ. Saf. 149 (2018) 257 e 266, https:// doi.org/10.1016/j.ecoenv.2017.12.012.
- [168] B. Liu, S. Zhang, Emerging Pollutants d Part II: Treatment, 2019, pp. 1390 e 1401, https://doi.org/10.1002/wer.1233.
- [169] T. Deblonde, C. Cossu-leguille, P. Hartemann, International Journal of Hygiene and Emerging pollutants in wastewater : a review of the literature, Int. J. Hyg Environ. Health 214 (2015) 442 e 448, https://doi.org/10.1016/ j.ijheh.2011.08.002.
- [170] M.J. Benotti, R.A. Trenholm, B.J. Vanderford, J.C. Holady, B.D. Stanford, S.A. Snyder, Pharmaceuticals and endocrine disrupting compounds in US, Drinking Water 43 (2009) 597 e 603.
- [171] P.M. Peltzer, R.C. Lajmanovich, A.M. Attademo, C.M. Junges, C.M. Teglia, C. Martinuzzi, L. Curi, M.J. Culzoni, H.C. Goicoechea, Ecotoxicity of veterinary enro /uniFB02 oxacin and cipro /uniFB02 oxacin antibiotics on anuran amphibian larvae, Environ. Toxicol. Pharmacol. 51 (2017) 114 e 123, https://doi.org/10.1016/ j.etap.2017.01.021.
- [172] V. Geissen, H. Mol, E. Klumpp, G. Umlauf, M. Nadal, M. Van Der Ploeg, S.E.A.T.M. Van De Zee, C.J. Ritsema, Emerging pollutants in the environment : a challenge for water resource management, Int. Soil Water Conserv. Res. 3 (2015) 57 e 65, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.iswcr.2015.03.002.
- [173] R. Hou, X. Luo, C. Liu, L. Zhou, J. Wen, Y. Yuan, Enhanced degradation of triphenyl phosphate (TPHP) in bioelectrochemical systems: kinetics, pathway and degradation mechanisms, Environ. Pollut. 254 (2019), 113040, https://doi.org/10.1016/J.ENVPOL.2019.113040.
- [174] E. Fernando, G. Kyazze, A. Ahsan, P. Fernando, Expedited Biodegradation of Organic Pollutants and Refractory Compounds Using Bio-Electrochemical Systems, Biodegrad. [Working Title], 2021, https://doi.org/10.5772/ INTECHOPEN.99229.
- [175] X. Cai, X. Luo, Y. Yuan, J. Li, Z. Yu, S. Zhou, Stimulation of phenanthrene and biphenyl degradation by biochar-conducted long distance electron transfer in soil bioelectrochemical systems, Sci. Total Environ. 797 (2021), 149124, https://doi.org/10.1016/J.SCITOTENV.2021.149124.
- [176] S. Li, X. Zhu, H. Yu, X. Wang, X. Liu, H. Yang, F. Li, Q. Zhou, Simultaneous sulfamethoxazole degradation with electricity generation by microbial fuel cells using Ni-MOF-74 as cathode catalysts and quanti /uniFB01 cation of antibiotic resistance genes, Environ. Res. 197 (2021), 111054, https://doi.org/10.1016/ J.ENVRES.2021.111054.
- [177] S. Li, J. Jiang, S.H. Ho, F. Li, W. Zeng, Bimetallic nitrogen-doped porous carbon derived from ZIF-L &amp; FeTPP@ZIF-8 as electrocatalysis and application for antibiotic wastewater treatment, Separ. Purif. Technol. 276 (2021), 119259, https://doi.org/10.1016/J.SEPPUR.2021.119259.
- [178] Q. Wu, S. Jiao, M. Ma, S. Peng, Microbial fuel cell system : a promising technology for pollutant removal and environmental remediation, Environ. Sci. Pollut. Res. 27 (2020) 6749 e 6764.
- [179] G. Palanisamy, H.Y. Jung, T. Sadhasivam, M.D. Kurkuri, S.C. Kim, S.H. Roh, A comprehensive review on microbial fuel cell technologies: processes, utilization, and advanced developments in electrodes and membranes, J. Clean. Prod. 221 (2019) 598 e 621, https://doi.org/10.1016/J.JCLEPRO.2019.02.172.
- [180] I. Chakraborty, S.M. Sathe, C.N. Khuman, M.M. Ghangrekar, Bioelectrochemically powered remediation of xenobiotic compounds and heavy metal toxicity using microbial fuel cell and microbial electrolysis cell, Mater. Sci. Energy Technol. 3 (2020) 104 e 115, https://doi.org/10.1016/ J.MSET.2019.09.011.
- [181] M. Hassan, H. Wei, H. Qiu, S.W.H. Jaafry, Y. Su, B. Xie, Power generation and pollutants removal from land /uniFB01 ll leachate in microbial fuel cell: variation and in /uniFB02 uence of anodic microbiomes, Bioresour. Technol. 247 (2018) 434 e 442, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biortech.2017.09.124.
- [182] R. Kumar, L. Singh, A.W. Zularisam, F.I. Hai, Microbial fuel cell is emerging as a versatile technology: a review on its possible applications, challenges and strategies to improve the performances, Int. J. Energy Res. 42 (2018) 369 e 394, https://doi.org/10.1002/ER.3780.
- [183] Y.C. Nie, F. Yu, L.C. Wang, Q.J. Xing, X. Liu, Y. Pei, J.P. Zou, W.L. Dai, Y. Li, S.L. Suib, Photocatalytic degradation of organic pollutants coupled with simultaneous photocatalytic H2 evolution over graphene quantum dots/MnN-TiO2/g-C3N4 composite catalysts: performance and mechanism, Appl. Catal. B Environ. 227 (2018) 312 e 321, https://doi.org/10.1016/ J.APCATB.2018.01.033.
- [184] M.E. Khan, M.M. Khan, B. Min, M.H. Cho, Microbial fuel cell assisted band gap narrowed TiO 2 for visible light- induced photocatalytic activities and power

generation, Sci. Rep. (2018) 1 e 12, https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-01819617-2.

- [185] Q. Chen, L. Liu, L. Liu, Y. Zhang, Chemosphere A novel UV-assisted PEC-MFC system with CeO 2/TiO 2/ACF catalytic cathode for gas phase VOCs treatment, Chemosphere 255 (2020), 126930, https://doi.org/10.1016/ j.chemosphere.2020.126930.
- [186] L. Wang, L. Liu, F. Yang, Ef /uniFB01 cient gas phase VOC removal and electricity generation in an integrated bio-photo-electro-catalytic reactor with bioanode and TiO 2 photo-electro-catalytic air cathode, Bioresour. Technol. 270 (2018) 554 e 561, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biortech.2018.09.041.
- [187] Y. Guan, F. Zhang, B. Huang, H. Yu, Enhancing electricity generation of microbial fuel cell for wastewater treatment using nitrogen-doped carbon dotssupported carbon paper anode, J. Clean. Prod. 229 (2019) 412 e 419, https:// doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2019.05.040.
- [188] Y. Shan, J. Cui, Y. Liu, W. Zhao, TiO 2 anchored on MoS 2 nanosheets based on molybdenite exfoliation as an ef /uniFB01 cient cathode for enhanced Cr (VI) reduction in microbial fuel cell, Environ. Res. 190 (2020), 110010, https://doi.org/ 10.1016/j.envres.2020.110010.
- [189] T. Ahmadpour, S. Aber, M. Ghasem, Improved dye degradation and simultaneous electricity generation in a photoelectrocatalytic microbial fuel cell equipped with AgBr/CuO hybrid photocathode, J. Power Sources 474 (2020), 228589, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2020.228589.
- [190] P. Xu, D. Zheng, Z. Xie, Q. He, J. Yu, The degradation of ibuprofen in a novel microbial fuel cell with PANi @ CNTs/SS bio-anode and CuInS 2 photocatalytic cathode: property , ef /uniFB01 ciency and mechanism, J. Clean. Prod. 265 (2020), 121872, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2020.121872.
- [191] A. Kadier, Y. Simayi, P. Abdeshahian, N.F. Azman, K. Chandrasekhar, M.S. Kalil, A comprehensive review of microbial electrolysis cells (MEC) reactor designs and con /uniFB01 gurations for sustainable hydrogen gas production, Alex. Eng. J. 55 (2016) 427 e 443, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aej.2015.10.008.
- [192] E. Yang, H. Omar Mohamed, S.G. Park, M. Obaid, S.Y. Al-Qaradawi, P. Castano, ~ K. Chon, K.J. Chae, A review on self-sustainable microbial electrolysis cells for electro-biohydrogen production via coupling with carbon-neutral renewable energy technologies, Bioresour. Technol. 320 (2021), 124363, https://doi.org/ 10.1016/j.biortech.2020.124363.
- [193] T. Jafary, W. Ramli, W. Daud, M. Ghasemi, H. Kim, J.M. Jahim, M. Ismail, S. Lim, Biocathode in microbial electrolysis cell; present status and future prospects, Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 47 (2015) 23 e 33, https://doi.org/ 10.1016/j.rser.2015.03.003.
- [194] C.G. Morales-Guio, L.A. Stern, X. Hu, Nanostructured hydrotreating catalysts for electrochemical hydrogen evolution, Chem. Soc. Rev. 43 (2014) 6555 e 6569, https://doi.org/10.1039/c3cs60468c.
- [195] H. Du, R.M. Kong, X. Guo, F. Qu, J. Li, Recent progress in transition metal phosphides with enhanced electrocatalysis for hydrogen evolution, Nanoscale 10 (2018) 21617 e 21624, https://doi.org/10.1039/c8nr07891b.
- [196] B. Zhu, R. Zou, Q. Xu, Metal e organic framework based catalysts for hydrogen evolution, Adv. Energy Mater. 8 (2018), 1801193, https://doi.org/10.1002/ aenm.201801193.
- [197] L. Zhang, Y. Jia, X. Yan, X. Yao, Activity origins in nanocarbons for the electrocatalytic hydrogen evolution reaction, Small 14 (2018), 1800235, https:// doi.org/10.1002/smll.201800235.
- [198] W. Yang, S. Chen, Recent progress in electrode fabrication for electrocatalytic hydrogen evolution reaction: a mini review, Chem. Eng. J. 393 (2020), 124726, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2020.124726.
- [199] L. Zhang, Q. Chang, H. Chen, M. Shao, Recent advances in palladium-based electrocatalysts for fuel cell reactions and hydrogen evolution reaction, Nano Energy 29 (2016) 198 e 219, https://doi.org/10.1016/ J.NANOEN.2016.02.044.

[200] L. Zeng, X. Li, S. Fan, M. Zhang, Z. Yin, M. Tade, S. Liu, /C19 Photo-driven bioelectrochemical photocathode with polydopamine-coated TiO2 nanotubes for self-sustaining MoS2 synthesis to facilitate hydrogen evolution, J. Power Sources 413 (2019) 310 e 317, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2018.12.054.

[201] Q.Y. Chen, J.S. Liu, Y. Liu, Y.H. Wang, Hydrogen production on TiO2 nanorod arrays cathode coupling with bio-anode with additional electricity generation, J. Power Sources 238 (2013) 345 e 349, https://doi.org/10.1016/ j.jpowsour.2013.04.066.

[202] L.L. Wan, X.J. Li, G.L. Zang, X. Wang, Y.Y. Zhang, Q.X. Zhou, A solar assisted microbial electrolysis cell for hydrogen production driven by a microbial fuel cell, RSC Adv. 5 (2015) 82276 e 82281, https://doi.org/10.1039/c5ra16919d.

[203] L. Zeng, X. Li, S. Fan, Z. Yin, J. Mu, M. Qin, A. Chen, Solar-driven bio-electrochemical system for synergistic hydrogen evolution and pollutant elimination simultaneously over defect-rich CoN e MoS2/biomass nanosheets, J. Power Sources 478 (2020), 228755, https://doi.org/10.1016/ j.jpowsour.2020.228755.

[204] K. Keruthiga, S.N. Mohamed, N.N. Gandhi, K. Muthukumar, Sugar industry waste-derived anode for enhanced biohydrogen production from rice mill wastewater using arti /uniFB01 cial photo-assisted microbial electrolysis cell, Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 46 (2021) 20425 e 20434, https://doi.org/10.1016/ j.ijhydene.2021.03.181.

[205] C. Song, J. Zhang, Electrocatalytic oxygen reduction reaction, PEM Fuel Cell Electrocatal. Catal. Layers Fundam. Appl. (2008) 89 e 134, https://doi.org/ 10.1007/978-1-84800-936-3\_2.

- [206] J.W. Choi, D. Aurbach, Promise and reality of post-lithium-ion batteries with high energy densities, Nat. Rev. Mater. 1 (2016) 1 e 16, https://doi.org/ 10.1038/natrevmats.2016.13.

| [207]   | E. Marini, L. Jorissen, S. Brimaud, Rational design of a low-cost, durable and € ef /uniFB01 cient bifunctional oxygen electrode for rechargeable metal-air batteries, J. Power Sources 482 (2021), 228900, https://doi.org/10.1016/                                                                                                                                                     |
|---------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [208]   | j.jpowsour.2020.228900. X.Z. Yuan, C. Nayoze-Coynel, N. Shaigan, D. Fisher, N. Zhao, N. Zamel, P. Gazdzicki, M. Ulsh, K.A. Friedrich, F. Girard, U. Groos, A review of functions, attributes, properties and measurements for the quality control of proton exchange membrane fuel cell components, J. Power Sources 491 (2021), 229540, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2021.229540. |
| [209]   | K. Ben Liew, W.R.W. Daud, M. Ghasemi, J.X. Leong, S. Su Lim, M. Ismail, S.S. Lim, M. Ismail, Non-Pt catalyst as oxygen reduction reaction in microbial fuel cells: a review, Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 39 (2014) 4870 e 4883, https:// doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2014.01.062.                                                                                                             |
| [210]   | Y. Hou, J. Chen, Z. He, H. Yuan, I.M. Abu-Reesh, Oxygen reduction reaction catalysts used in microbial fuel cells for energy-ef /uniFB01 cient wastewater treat- ment: a review Oxygen reduction reaction catalysts used in microbial fuel cells for energy-ef /uniFB01 cient wastewater treatment: a review, Mater. Horiz. 3                                                            |
| [211]   | (2016) 382, https://doi.org/10.1039/c6mh00093b. S.G. Peera, T. Maiyalagan, C. Liu, S. Ashmath, T.G. Lee, Z. Jiang, S. Mao, A review on carbon and non-precious metal based cathode catalysts in mi- crobial fuel cells, Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 46 (2021) 3056 e 3089, https://                                                                                                          |
| [212]   | doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2020.07.252. M. Kodali, C. Santoro, A. Serov, S. Kabir, K. Artyushkova, I. Matanovic, P. Atanassov, Air breathing cathodes for microbial fuel cell using Mn-, Fe-, Co- and Ni-containing platinum group metal-free catalysts, Electrochim.                                                                                                                    |
| [213]   | Acta 231 (2017) 115 e 124, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2017.02.033. S. Li, C. Cheng, A. Thomas, Carbon-based microbial-fuel-cell electrodes: from conductive supports to active catalysts, Adv. Mater. 29 (2017), 1602547, https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201602547.                                                                                                               |
| [214]   | M.V. Kannan, G. Gnana kumar, Current status, key challenges and its solu- tions in the design and development of graphene based ORR catalysts for the microbial fuel cell applications, Biosens. Bioelectron. 77 (2016) 1208 e 1220,                                                                                                                                                     |
| [215]   | https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bios.2015.10.018. Y. Dessie, S. Tadesse, R. Eswaramoorthy, Review on manganese oxide based biocatalyst in microbial fuel cell: nanocomposite approach, Mater. Sci. En-                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| [216]   | ergy Technol. 3 (2020) 136 e 149, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mset.2019.11.001. S. Li, S.H. Ho, T. Hua, Q. Zhou, F. Li, J. Tang, Sustainable biochar as an elec- trocatalysts for the oxygen reduction reaction in microbial fuel cells, Green                                                                                                                                             |
| [217]   | Energy Environ (2021), https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gee.2020.11.010. R. Ma, G. Lin, Y. Zhou, Q. Liu, T. Zhang, G. Shan, M. Yang, J. Wang, A review of oxygen reduction mechanisms for metal-free carbon-based electrocatalysts, Npj Comput. Mater. 5 (2019) 1 e 15, https://doi.org/10.1038/s41524-019-                                                                                     |
| [218]   | 0210-3. Q. Chen, L.L. Liu, L.L. Liu, Y. Zhang, A novel UV-assisted PEC-MFC system with CeO2/TiO2/ACF catalytic cathode for gas phase VOCs treatment, Chemo- sphere 255 (2020), 126930, https://doi.org/10.1016/                                                                                                                                                                          |
| [219]   | j.chemosphere.2020.126930. G.D. Bhowmick, I. Chakraborty, M.M. Ghangrekar, A. Mitra, TiO2/Activated carbon photo cathode catalyst exposed to ultraviolet radiation to enhance the ef /uniFB01 cacy of integrated microbial fuel cell-membrane bioreactor, Bio- resour. Technol. Reports. 7 (2019), 100303, https://doi.org/10.1016/                                                      |
| [220]   | j.biteb.2019.100303. X. Qi, Y. Ren, P. Liang, X. Wang, New insights in photosynthetic microbial fuel cell using anoxygenic phototrophic bacteria, Bioresour. Technol. 258 (2018)                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| [221]   | 310 e 317, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biortech.2018.03.058. J. Greenman, I. Gajda, I. Ieropoulos, Microbial fuel cells (MFC) and micro- algae; photo microbial fuel cell (PMFC) as complete recycling machines, Sustain. Energy Fuels (2018) 1 e 22, https://doi.org/10.1039/x0xx00000x.                                                                                                  |
| [222]   | R. Kakarla, B. Min, Photoautotrophic microalgae Scenedesmus obliquus attached on a cathode as oxygen producers for microbial fuel cell (MFC) operation, Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 39 (2014) 10275 e 10283, https://doi.org/                                                                                                                                                                |
| [223]   | 10.1016/j.ijhydene.2014.04.158. B. Kokabian, V.G. Gude, Sustainable photosynthetic biocathode in microbial desalination cells, Chem. Eng. J. 262 (2015) 958 e 965, https://doi.org/                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| [224]   | 10.1016/j.cej.2014.10.048. M. Tahir, L. Pan, F. Idrees, X. Zhang, L. Wang, J.J. Zou, Z.L. Wang, Electro- catalytic oxygen evolution reaction for energy conversion and storage: a comprehensive review, Nano Energy 37 (2017) 136 e 157, https://doi.org/                                                                                                                                |
| [225]   | 10.1016/J.NANOEN.2017.05.022. M.K. Enamala, R. Dixit, A. Tangellapally, M. Singh, S.M.P. Dinakarrao, M. Chavali, S.R. Pamanji, V. Ashokkumar, A. Kadier, K. Chandrasekhar, Photosynthetic microorganisms (Algae) mediated bioelectricity generation in microbial fuel cell: concise review, Environ. Technol. Innovat. 19 (2020),                                                        |
| [226]   | 100959, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eti.2020.100959. B. Saba, A.D. Christy, Z. Yu, A.C. Co, Sustainable power generation from bacterio-algal microbial fuel cells (MFCs): an overview, Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 73 (2017) 75 e 84, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2017.01.115.                                                                                                          |
| [227]   | W.J. Hui, E.-M. David, J. Huang, Using C. vulgaris assisted microbial desali- nation cell as a green technology in land /uniFB01 ll leachate pre-treatment: a factor- performance relation study, J. Water Reuse Desalin. 10 (2020) 1 e 16, https://                                                                                                                                     |
| [228]   | C.N. Reddy, R. Kakarla, B. Min, Algal biocathodes, in: Biomass, Biofuels, Bio- chem. Microb. Electrochem. Technol. Sustain. Platf. Fuels, Chem. Remediat., Elsevier, 2018, pp. 525 e 547, https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-444-64052-                                                                                                                                                      |

[229] M. Shukla, S. Kumar, Algal growth in photosynthetic algal microbial fuel cell and its subsequent utilization for biofuels, Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 82 (2018) 402 e 414, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2017.09.067.

[230] C. Nagendranatha Reddy, H.T.H. Nguyen, M.T. Noori, B. Min, Potential applications of algae in the cathode of microbial fuel cells for enhanced electricity generation with simultaneous nutrient removal and algae biore /uniFB01 nery: current status and future perspectives, Bioresour. Technol. 292 (2019), 122010, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biortech.2019.122010.

[231] K. Elmaadawy, J. Hu, S. Guo, H. Hou, J. Xu, D. Wang, T. Liang, J. Yang, S. liang, K. Xiao, B. Liu, Enhanced treatment of land /uniFB01 ll leachate with cathodic algal bio /uniFB01 lm and oxygen-consuming unit in a hybrid microbial fuel cell system, Bioresour. Technol. 310 (2020), 123420, https://doi.org/10.1016/ j.biortech.2020.123420.

[232] A.G. del Campo, J.F. Perez, P. Canizares, M.A. Rodrigo, F.J. Fernandez, J. Lobato, ~ A. Gonzalez del Campo, J.F. Perez, P. Canizares, M.A. Rodrigo, F.J. Fernandez, ~ J. Lobato, Study of a photosynthetic MFC for energy recovery from synthetic industrial fruit juice wastewater, Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 39 (2014), https:// doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2014.07.055, 0 e 8.

- [233] Y. Zhang, Y. Zhao, M. Zhou, A photosynthetic algal microbial fuel cell for treating swine wastewater, Environ. Sci. Pollut. Res. 26 (2019) 6182 e 6190, https://doi.org/10.1007/s11356-018-3960-4.
- [234] A. Elmekawy, H.M. Hegab, K. Vanbroekhoven, D. Pant, Techno-productive potential of photosynthetic microbial fuel cells through different con /uniFB01 gurations, Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 39 (2014) 617 e 627, https://doi.org/ 10.1016/j.rser.2014.07.116.
- [235] T. Jafary, A. Al-Mamun, H. Alhimali, M.S. Baawain, M.S. Rahman, S. Rahman, B.R. Dhar, M. Aghbashlo, M. Tabatabaei, Enhanced power generation and desalination rate in a novel quadruple microbial desalination cell with a single desalination chamber, Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 127 (2020), 109855, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2020.109855.
- [236] H.H. Salman, Z.Z. Ismail, Modeling and simulation of the processes in desalination fuel cell fed with actual wetland brackish water, J. Appl. Electrochem. 51 (2021) 905 e 916, https://doi.org/10.1007/s10800-021-01546-0.
- [237] M. Barahoei, M.S. Hatamipour, M. Khosravi, S. Afsharzadeh, S.E. Feghhipour, Salinity reduction of brackish water using a chemical photosynthesis desalination cell, Sci. Total Environ. 779 (2021), 146473, https://doi.org/10.1016/ j.scitotenv.2021.146473.
- [238] G. Huang, H. Wang, H. Zhao, P. Wu, Q. Yan, Application of polypyrrole modi /uniFB01 ed cathode in bio-electro-Fenton coupled with microbial desalination cell (MDC) for enhanced degradation of methylene blue, J. Power Sources 400 (2018) 350 e 359, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2018.08.048.
- [239] G. Anusha, T. Noori, M.M. Ghangrekar, Application of silver-tin dioxide composite cathode catalyst for enhancing performance of microbial desalination cell, Mater. Sci. Energy Technol. 1 (2018) 188 e 195, https://doi.org/ 10.1016/j.mset.2018.08.002.
- [240] A. Elawwad, D.Z. Husein, M. Ragab, A. Hamdy, Enhancing the performance of microbial desalination cells using d MnO2/graphene nanocomposite as a cathode catalyst, J. Water Reuse Desalin. 10 (2020) 214 e 226, https://doi.org/ 10.2166/wrd.2020.011.
- [241] M.R. Khairiza, R. Maulina, T.A. Febriana, T.S. Utami, R. Arbianti, H. Hermansyah, Performance improvement of seawater desalination system using stacked microbial desalination cell method and activated carbon coating on cathode with tofu industrial wastewater as substrate, in: AIP Conf. Proc., American Institute of Physics Inc., 2020, 040015, https://doi.org/ 10.1063/5.0021051.
- [242] F. Yang, K. Zhang, D. Zhang, L. Zhang, Y. Huang, Treatment and nutrient recovery of synthetic /uniFB02 owback water from shale gas extraction by aircathode(PMo/CB) microbial desalination cells, J. Chem. Technol. Biotechnol. 96 (2021) 262 e 272, https://doi.org/10.1002/jctb.6538.
- [243] B. Kokabian, U. Ghimire, V.G. Gude, Water deionization with renewable energy production in microalgae - microbial desalination process, Renew. Energy 122 (2018) 354 e 361, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.renene.2018.01.061.
- [244] K.H. Ye, H. Li, D. Huang, S. Xiao, W. Qiu, M. Li, Y. Hu, W. Mai, H. Ji, S. Yang, Enhancing photoelectrochemical water splitting by combining work function tuning and heterojunction engineering, Nat. Commun. 101 (2019) 1 e 9, https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-019-11586-y, 10 (2019).