<!-- image -->

The Quarterly Review of Economics and Finance 41 (2001) 621-643

## Institutions for commitment in the Brazilian regulatory system

## Bernardo Mueller

Department of Economics, Universidade de Brası «lia, Brasılia, Brazil «

## 1. Introduction

The beginning of the current privatization movement in Brazil can be dated as far back as the mid-1970s, yet it was only after the implementation of the PND (National Plan for Privatization) in 1990 that the this process really started to make progress. 1 Brazil was a relatively late comer to this worldwide trend. Although ten years later the process is far from complete, it is already possible to look back and assess what has been achieved. Notwithstanding the difficulty of defining objective criteria for evaluation, it is a premise of this paper that, to date, this process can be considered successful. Successful in this context does not mean that there aren't any problems, nor that things could not have turned out better. It means simply that the process has been implemented in a form that has been well accepted by society and that generates positive expectations for the future. This includes the fact that large parts of the stock of state-owned companies have been and are being sold at an attractive price for the government. Furthermore, in general, those purchasing these companies are investing in a manner that is conducive to well-functioning and modern economic sectors. The regulatory framework is gradually being established in the public utilities sectors and has been building credibility in what is a novel form of governmental organization in Brazil. The sectors being privatized are being reformed and competition is being introduced even in areas where a few years ago this did not seem possible. All in all the evidence suggests that for now the presumption of a successful privatization and regulatory process is warranted. 2

This presumption is particularly strong for the telecommunication sector, though it also describes other public utility sectors such as electricity and petroleum and, to a lesser extent, transports and water: 3

The change in the Brazilian telecommunications sector in the last five years has been impressive: from state monopoly system without a regulatory environment- requently ineff ficient, and investing much less than necessary- o a new sector with a modern and compett itive structure, fueled by large investments and commitments from aggressive investors. . . . The Brazilian government sold 51.79% of its voting shares in Telebra «s for US$19 billion in one of the largest privatizations worldwide. 4

What is puzzling about this success is the fact that the regulatory system and the rules of the game were not yet defined at the time of privatization, so that investors, both foreign and local, faced considerable regulatory risk and uncertainty regarding the prospects of administrative expropriation. In a country where arbitrary government interference has been commonplace and extensive, and where there is considerable resistance by public opinion against privatization, such risk cannot be easily dismissed. Nevertheless the outcomes of the privatization program seem to indicate that investors have somehow been reassured regarding potential discretionary behavior by the government and regulators against their interest. Apparently some means must have been found to credibly commit the government and the new regulatory agencies not to undertake actions that expropriate investors once they have entered the market.

How this commitment has been achieved is by no means evident. Not much has been written about the new regulatory system in Brazil and a precursory search through this literature has yielded no convincing explanation. Most work on this subject simply ignores the issue. Many of those that do mention the problem tend to miss much of the point, taking it for granted that the supposed independence of the regulatory agencies is enough to provide commitment against expropriation by the government. Even those studies that do fully grasp the nature of the problem do not go in detail into the political and judicial institutions of the country and so are unable to shed much light on the problem. 5

The purpose of this paper is to provide a better understanding of the Brazilian regulatory system by determining whether in fact some form of commitment has been achieved and if so what form it takes. This is done using the framework proposed by Levy and Spiller (1996), which suggests conducting the analysis by focusing on the relationship between the rules and structures of the regulatory system and the political and social institutions of the country. The first step is a description of some key characteristics of the Brazilian political institutions. Section 2 describes the dominant role played by the Executive and establishes the behavioral assumptions for the Supreme Court. Given these characteristics, section 3 uses a spatial model to show that despite the high level of discretionary power of the Executive there are institutions and circumstances that provide safeguards against administrative expropriation of investors. Examples of regulatory events where these safeguards came into play are given. Additionally this section speculates how these safeguards would work in the event of electoral turnover with Executive power switching over to a party that opposes privatization. Section 4 concludes the paper. 6

## 2. Institutional and political background

## 2.1. Executive preponderance

This section describes the institutional and political background against which the Brazilian privatization program and the reform of the public utilities sectors has been evolving.

The focus is on the roles played by the Executive and by the Judiciary. This subsection describes the disproportionate power that the current institutional arrangements concede to the Executive, while subsection 2.2 argues that the Judiciary can be considered to act independently from the Executive. This will set the stage for section 3 where the interaction of these players with the regulatory agencies and the new owners of the public service concessions is modeled.

In 1985 Brazil emerged from more than twenty years of military dictatorship to a new democratic and civilian regime. Three years later a new Constitution was approved, replacing the previous one drafted by the military regime in 1964. Despite many important changes in this new Constitution, in many aspects it was not a complete break with the way things were done before. In particular, the way it was conceived, and especially the way it was put into practice subsequently, through complementary legislation and through the day to day order of business, the new Constitution continued to allow incommensurate power to the Executive relative to the other branches of government. This is a good example of the point made by North (1990, pg. 90) that even discontinuous change, such as revolutions, is seldom as discontinuous at it may appear on the surface, since though formal rules may change the informal constraints do not tend to change as quickly.

There are many good treatments of the preponderant role played by the Executive in the Brazilian political system ((Pereira, 1999), (Mueller &amp; Pereira, 1999). The purpose here is simply to establish the fact that during the period when privatization and reform of the public utility service was under way in Brazil, essentially the period of 1994 to 2000, the Executive held extraordinary powers to pursue its preferences and implement policy. This will be used in two ways in the next section. First it affects the way in which the privatization and reforms were conducted, with the Executive being the primary force and decision-maker in the process. Second, it raises the question of what safeguards assured investors against arbitrary intervention by the Executive once they had entered the market.

The Brazilian political system is a presidential system structured according to a system of checks and balances with three branches, similar in many ways to that of the U.S.A. Given that Congress is the major institution that could restrain presidential action, the focus in this subsection will be on the Executive's ability to impose its preferences on Congress. The most striking instrument used by the Executive for creating legislation is the use of provisional decrees ( medidas proviso «rias ), which in practice allow the Executive to pass legislation quickly without the need for Congressional approval. Although the internal rules do allow Congress to vote the provisional decrees, in practice this has not happened and the Executive has used these instrument practically without restraint. Legislation has been edited and re-edited continually, to the point where provisional decrees have become a day to day means for the Executive to govern. Since the creation of the provisional decrees in the 1988 Constitution, 4422 decrees have been issued and Congress has rejected only 21 of them. 7 According to Viana (2000) the ratio of provisional decrees to the number of laws voted autonomously by Congress grew from 2.1 in April of 1995 to 7.6 in August 1999. In fact 1999 was the year with the largest number of provisional decrees, which indicates the trend to ever-greater reliance on this instrument.

When the situation is such that for some reason provisional decrees cannot be used and the legislation must go through Congress, the Executive has a series of means to make its

preferences prevail. In the first place, the President has exclusive power to initiate certain kinds of legislation, such as bills concerning budgetary and public administration matters. Mueller and Pereira (1999) show that from 1995 to 1997, 80% of the bills that were approved were initiated by the Executive, against 18% by Congress and 2% by the Judiciary. Secondly, the Executive has many means to affect the path of a proposal through Congress. It can, for example, discharge a bill from a committee and send it to be voted by the floor. Also, as shown by Mueller and Pereira (1999), during the period under consideration the Executive has had the power to determine the members of each committee, strategically appointing and removing legislators according to which bills were being considered at each point in time. 8 In addition, the Executive can circumvent the permanent committees by strategically creating special committees to consider specific issues. All of this is in marked contrast to the power held by committees in the US Congress, generally seen as the locus of power within Congress (Shepsle &amp; Weingast, 1987; Weingast &amp; Marshall, 1988).

Another important means through which the President affects legislation in Congress is that of veto power. This includes not only the power to veto an entire bill, but also to veto only specific parts of a bill. This allows the President much more discretion to affect legislation than is held, for example, by the Executive in the US, who must veto all or nothing. In fact, during the period of 1995 to 1997 the President did not once use a package veto, opting instead to use the partial veto 83 times and not once being overturned by Congress.

The upshot of the situation described in this subsection is that in the 1995-997 legisla1 tures the approval rate of the Executive's proposals was extremely high, with only 11 bills (2.4%) being rejected by Congress. The same cannot be said of the bills started by the members of Congress. It is for this reason that the Executive has been considered to have steam-rolled Congress during this period. This justifies the assumption used in section 3, that the Executive is able to control the regulatory agencies. Also it raises a problem that must concern investors who purchase public service concession: what restrains the Executive from exercising this discretion to administratively expropriate the privatized companies should this come to be in its interest? This problem will be addressed in section 3.

## 2.2. Judicial independence

In section 3 it will be argued that the Supreme Court acted as one of the major constraints against administrative expropriation of the investors who purchased concessions of public utility services. In order to model this interaction it will be necessary to have explicit behavioral assumptions for the Supreme Court, so as to give a clear picture of what are its motivations. The purpose of this subsection is to state and defend those assumptions. 9

The first assumption is that the Supreme Court can be considered as independent from the Executive. This is to say that it is not the case that the Supreme Court will never rule against the Executive. Given the power held by the Executive, as described above, and its ability to control Congress, this assumption is not obvious. In several countries around this world the same could not be said about the Supreme Court. This assumption will be defended below.

Given the independence of the Supreme Court the question arises as to what are its preferences regarding the issues central to this paper, that is, those involving privatization

and regulation of public utility services. In other words, given that the Supreme Court has the power to independently influence these issues, how can we expect it to act? The second assumption is that the Supreme Court acts legalistically so as to uphold the concession contracts. That is, although the Supreme Court may have the power to act politically, regarding the issues of interest here it has chosen to interpret the legislation and the contracts in a narrow and unbiased manner. Both of these assumptions will be defended in turn.

In order to argue that the Supreme Court in Brazil is independent of the Executive, the first step is to look at the institutional rules regarding its structure and process. The Court is composed of eleven judges, appointed for life terms by the President and confirmed by the Senate. The composition of the Court has changed very slowly over time, there currently being judges appointed as far back as 1981. This means that each president typically has the chance to appoint only a small number of judges, which makes it difficult to appoint the median voter in most issues, thus limiting the influence of the Executive. Until the present time President Fernando Henrique Cardoso has only had the opportunity to appoint one Supreme Court Judge.

In the U.S.A., Congress is able to reverse a decision made by the Supreme Court. This serves as an important limitation on the Supreme Court's discretion since it must take the preferences of the House and Senate as a restriction on the set of choices it can make, given that there are costs to being reversed. This procedural rule has important effects on the behavior of the Supreme Court, as argued by Spiller and Gely (1990, 1992) and Spiller and Spitzer (1995). In Brazil there is no similar procedural rule. Once the Supreme Court has made a decision, Congress and the Executive have no recourse short of passing a new law. Given that changing the law is very costly, often requiring Constitutional amendments in the most controversial issues, it is clear that the Supreme Court is afforded considerable insulation from the other branches of government by this rule. Additionally, the independence of the Judiciary was enhanced by the Constitution of 1988 that established that; (i) the annual budget of the judicial power was to be elaborated by itself, and (ii) the power to appoint lower court judges belonged to the judicial courts. Both of these rights removed from the other branches of government potential instruments of control over the Judiciary. 10

If in fact the structure and process of the Supreme Court allow it the degree of independence argued above, then we should expect to observe instances in which the Supreme Court directly contradicts the interest of the Executive and Congress. Unfortunately the literature on the relationship of the Judiciary with Congress and the Executive is not well developed in Brazil and there exist few studies that collect and analyze systematically collected data on this issue. Nevertheless, there is sufficient evidence to establish this point until more extensive research is done on the subject. The first point to note is that there are several high profile cases where the Supreme Court ruled against the Executive on issues that were of extreme importance to the Executive. These are issues over which there can be no doubt of the Executive's preferences and will to prevail, so that if the Judiciary were not truly independent, the Executive would have used its power to change the Court's decision.

Perhaps the best example of this is the attempt by the government to tax retired workers. This has been one of the main solutions envisioned by the Cardoso government to the fiscal crisis of the government and has been an ongoing effort since 1996. The Social Security system in Brazil is undergoing a severe crisis and is one of the main sources of the country's

large internal deficit. The continued success of the government's economic policy depends to a large degree on finding a solution to this problem. Taxing the transfers to retired workers proved highly controversial, as it involves acquired rights and entitlements, and the Executive was only able to pass this measure through Congress after much insistence and at great cost. The same could not be done to the Supreme Court, however, which declared the measure unconstitutional. This decision enraged the government and its supporters in Congress. Initially threats were made to deal with the Supreme Court's decision by changing the Constitution. The government is still pursuing this path, but it is a slow and uncertain process. Another reaction that ensued was the return of the debate on the need for external control of the judiciary. This debate tends to revive every time a ruling by the Supreme Court or other parts of the judiciary gets in the way of governmental policy. 11 For the moment, however, the government has had to accept defeat and chose to deal with the deficit by raising taxes and making cuts elsewhere.

There are several other cases that can be cited to provide evidence of judicial independence. In 1997 the Court required the government to increase the wages of the federal civil servants by 28.86% to compensate losses due to previous economic stabilization programs. This not only significantly increased the government's wage bill, but also served to assert the Court as a restraint on the discretion of policy makers. Another example is the role of the courts in land reform policy. The Cardoso government put this program high on its lists of priorities, given the pressure provided by the MST (Landless Peasant Movement) and public opinion. 12 Nevertheless, its efforts to expedite the transfer of land from large landowners to landless peasants, through expropriation of unproductive land, were often thwarted by the Courts, including the Supreme Court. Landowners contested expropriations, arguing either that their properties were not unproductive, or that the compensation offered by the government was too low. As argued by Alston, Libecap and Mueller (1999) the Court often ruled against the government on theses cases, not because it was biased in the case of land reform, but because it viewed the cases legalistically and disapproved not of the objective of the expropriations, but of the manner in which the government pursued it, violating property rights and due process.

There are several other examples that could be cited to provide evidence that in fact the Supreme Court does rule against the Executive in important cases. The objective here is not to enter into detail but rather to make the point. 13 As for evidence regarding a more systematically chosen sample of cases rather than a handful of prominent cases, Castro (1997b) analyzed 1,240 cases ruled by the Supreme Court in the first semester of 1997. 14 The results were classified according to the nature of the conflict, there being three possibilities: public interests moving against private interests, private interests moving against public interest and others (both private vs. private and public vs. public). Of the total number of cases, in the sample the Supreme Court ruled favorably to private interest when they were up against public interest 75.57% of the times. The author interprets the data as 'indicating clearly that the Supreme Court, even in its routine order of business, has ruled against the initiatives of the government,' (Castro, 1997b, pg. 153). It is true, however, that most of the cases where private interests prevail are tax related. Also, considering only public policy issues, the public interest prevailed in 24 of the 31 cases in the sample. Nevertheless the evidence suggests that in fact assumption of an independent Supreme Court is not at odds with the facts.

Given the independence of the Supreme Court, it is important for the argument in the next section to establish clearly what are its preferences and how it can be expected to act. As noted above, the assumption that will be used is that, regarding the typical issues that might arise from the privatization and regulation of public services, the Court will be expected to act in a nonpolitical and unbiased manner ruling closely to the letter of the contracts. This assumption is not meant as stating that the Brazilian Judiciary functions well in most aspects, nor that it doesn't need drastic improvement in many areas. There is a general common sense in Brazil that this is not the case, much to the contrary. Also, research that tries to detect and quantify the negative impact of the judicial system's inefficiency on the economy has found this effect to be significant. 15 What the assumption is saying is that investors who purchased public service concessions through the privatization program could have an expectation that the Supreme Court would uphold the concession contracts in an unbiased manner with high probability. Should the circumstance arise that the government would attempt to implement policy that went against those contracts, both the investors and the government could predict relatively safely that the Court would uphold the contracts. As will be shown in the next section, such an occasion did in fact arise.

It is beyond the scope of this paper to analyze more deeply the determinants of the Supreme Court's behavior. The judges do have strong individual preferences and since the Constitution of 1988 the Court has been called more and more to exert a politically active role. Various social groups, such as political parties, unions, professional associations, and even individuals, have been resorting more and more to the Court, seeking to exert through the judicial process pressure to affect public policy. These instances have given the Court many opportunities to play a more active political role. However, as described by Castro (1997a, pg. 245), 'the Court makes a relatively restricted use of constitutional remedies while at the same time adopting preliminary decisions and informal declarations with significant political impact.' 16 It seems to be the case that the role of the judiciary in Brazil is slowly evolving towards more active political role for the Supreme Court. However, for the purpose of this paper the assumption remains that the Court is expected to uphold the concession contracts.

## 3. Restraints on executive discretion

## 3.1. Introduction

In the previous sections it was shown that the Brazilian Executive has had a marked preponderance in policy-making during the recent period in which privatization and establishment of a regulatory system were among the major economic changes in the country. Clearly this level of discretion has been a key asset enabling the Executive to push along these reforms. Given that it is in the Executive's interest that the privatization program move along smoothly, investors appreciate the Executive's ability to interfere and assure their profitability. A strong Executive endorsing the reforms is able to protect investors in privatized companies from many potential dangers, thus reducing uncertainty. However, the downside is that the Executive's discretionary power also allows it the means to take

measures against the investors interests, should there arise a situation in which doing so became in the Executive's interest. As will be shown here, such situations have already arisen in the few years since the privatization of many sectors. These instances illustrate the potential risk that investors face in Brazil: while the Executive may protect them from much of the uncertainty inherent in the country, who protects them from the Executive? Clearly investors have considered these risks before entering the market, and the fact that they nevertheless chose to expose themselves indicates that the country's institutional structure must offer some form of safeguard against expropriation. In this section I will suggest what those safeguards may be. This will be done by using the framework developed in Spiller and Tiller (1997) to model the strategic interaction of the Brazilian Executive, Supreme Court, regulatory agencies and public service concessionaires within the institutional rules that currently govern the regulatory process. 17

For this preliminary investigation I will make an additional simplifying assumption that should be dropped in future extensions. It is assumed that the Executive is able to closely control the regulatory agency, or at least, the principal agent problem between them is not too severe. 18 This is not too strong an assumption for the period being analyzed here (1994- 2000), given that the interest of the agencies are relatively well aligned with that of the Executive that created them and appointed all the directors and counselors. 19 Also, given the Executive's dominance over Congress, discussed in the previous section, there is no reason why the Executive could not acquire a similar level of control over the regulatory agencies. That is, despite the frequent claims about agency independence, 20 it is reasonable to suspect that the Executive would not, without safeguards, transfer so much power to organizations that could potentially take action against its interest. 21 What I am suggesting is that the set up of the agency's structure and process will have been designed to allow the Executive reassurance that the agencies will not inadvertently pursue policies it opposes (McCubbins, Noll, &amp; Weingast, 1987, 1989). 22

In what follows a single dimensional spatial model is used to depict the regulatory system in Brazil under a scenario where it is functioning without tension, representative of much its existence thus far. Then the paper turns to modeling a couple of regulatory events in 1999 that illustrate well the safeguards that reduce the risk to investors of administrative expropriation. Finally, examine how well these safeguards would work if a new government, with preferences contrary to privatization, came to power.

To simplify, consider only the issue of determining the price that the concessionaire in charge of providing a public service is allowed to charge customers by the regulatory agency. 23 This is plotted along the horizontal line in Fig. 1. The concession contract establishes the rule according to which the price must be set. Nevertheless, the regulatory agency is able to interpret the contract in different ways and thus arbitrarily increase or reduce the price. The concessionaire can, however, take the matter to the Supreme Court if it feels the contract is not being upheld.

In Fig. 1 the preferred point of each player is shown, where F is the concessionaire (Firm), SC is the Supreme Court and Ex is the Executive. The point x0 shows the price level stipulated in the concession contract. In this scenario both the Supreme Court and the Executive prefer that public service regulation by the agency adhere closely to the contracts. The firm, on the other hand, prefers prices to be set at monopoly level (F). The utility curves

Fig. 1. No-tension scenario.

<!-- image -->

show the level of utility that each player attains from each possible price level. The firm's utility from having the prices set at the level specified in the contract, for example, is UF(x0 ). 24 Under this scenario the predicted outcome is that the contract will be upheld. The Executive has no reason to try to force a change and the Supreme Court would not uphold any change. The firm would naturally like a price increase, but realizes this would not be approved under this scenario and consequently does not spend any effort trying to obtain tariff hikes. Despite this, the firm is satisfied having the contract upheld since this is what it expected from the start.

This scenario represents much of what has been happening in the electric and telecommunications sector; the Executive wants the contracts carried out so that the reforms can continue to progress smoothly. There have been few serious problems, and small problems, inherent to any reform process of this magnitude, have been dealt with in a manner that signals that the reforms are functioning well.

## 3.2. An independent judiciary as a restraint on executive discretion

In order to illustrate the first safeguard which this paper argues has been present in the country's institutional structure and which has contributed to the smooth functioning of the regulatory process, consider the effect of the sharp devaluation of the real in January 1999 prompted by similar crises in Asia and in Russia in the previous years. Several electricity

distribution companies in Brazil purchase large shares of their power from Itaipu, a hydroelectric plant that is co-owned by Brazil and Paraguay. Because of its special bi-national nature, the power from Itaipu is indexed to the US dollar. The distribution companies immediately requested tariff increases based on the fact that their costs had gone up for reasons beyond their control. The concession contracts do in fact allow for tariff increases under such circumstances (that is, the price-cap formula is actually RPI-X + Y, where the Y factor represents such unexpected shocks). ANEEL was reluctant to grant the companies authorization to pass these cost increases on to the consumers. The government was deeply concerned with the general level of inflation, which was being pressured due to the devaluation. Given the importance of monetary stabilization for the government's economic program and political survival, much resistance was being put against price increases, particularly those of public services. At first ANEEL bought time by responding to the requests for tariff increases by allowing the companies to purchase electricity from Itaipu at a special rate of 1.55 R$/US$, when the actual rate fluctuated between 1.80 and 2.00 R$/US$. The companies requested that the rate prior to the devaluation be used, 1.21 R$/US$. Finally, 6 months later, ANEEL decided to adhere to the concession contracts and authorized tariff increases of 11.32% on average. 25

One way of interpreting these events is illustrated in Fig. 2. Under this new scenario the Executive's preferences changed as it started to value more heavily restraining inflation relative to upholding the original concession contracts. This is shown by a move to the left of the Executive's preferred point. If there were no institutional restraint, the Executive would have ANEEL interpret the concession contracts so as not to allow any price increase, or at least to concede an increase below the company's actual cost increase due to the currency devaluation.

If the Executive were to do so, however, it is likely that the concessionaires would appeal to the courts, arguing that their contracts had been broken. Given our assumptions about the behavior of the Supreme Court, we can expect that it would rule favorably to such a request. As noted above, the judiciary has frequently ruled against such moves by the Executive. Furthermore, this case involves rules explicitly set in license contracts, which the courts are more apt at reviewing than they are administrative procedures. In Fig. 2 the Supreme Court's preferred point is still at the price level determined in the contracts. However, we assume that there is a cost for the Supreme Court to take action. 26 These costs arise for several reasons. Firstly there is an opportunity cost for the Supreme Court to analyze any case, given the high caseload it faces. 27 Then there are several procedures that must be followed to strike down a decision by the agency that are cumbersome and can be avoided if the case is readily dismissed. Finally, there are the costs that arise from the fact that striking down an agency decision necessarily involves political confrontation. It is true that any decision by the Court will contradict some interest, but it is reasonable to expect that in Brazil discontentment from the Executive will be more costly to the Court than that from other parties. Furthermore, striking down a decision is generally perceived as more confrontational than simply rejecting to take action against a move by the agency.

The decision costs are shown in the figure by a downward shift of the Supreme Court's utility function by the magnitude c. The larger the costs the larger the downward shift. If the agency moves the price away from point x , 0 the Court can either do nothing or strike down

Fig. 2. Shift in executive's preferences.

<!-- image -->

the agency's action and move the price back to x . 0 If the new price x prevails, the Court's utility will be given by its original utility curve, USC(x). If however, the Court moves the price back to x , 0 then the Court's utility will be given by the utility curve that includes the decision costs, that is, USC(x0 )-c. Given this behavior by the Court, we can define its nonreversal set, that is, a range of prices that will not prompt a reaction by the Court to move the price back to x . 0 Inspection of the figure reveals that if the agency moves the price to any point between x 1 and x , 2 the Court will be better off not moving to reinstate x . 0 That is, { x , 1 x 2 } is the Supreme Court's nonreversal set.

The Executive will take the Court's nonreversal set as a constraint and will choose the point in that set closest to its most preferred point. The result in this scenario is that the Executive has the agency move the price to x 1 and the Court lets that change stand. The utility to Court and Executive are thus USC(x1 ) and UEX(x1 ) respectively. Were it not for the decision costs, the price would have remained at x , 0 so the effect of these costs is to give the Executive some discretion to affect the tariffs. The level of discretion depends on the level of decision costs. Therefore, although the judiciary in Brazil is modeled here as providing safeguards against administrative expropriation, its effectiveness in doing so may be mitigated by the level of decision costs. 28

## 3.3. Credibility as a restraint on executive discretion

If investors had to rely solely on the restraining effect of the judiciary, however, it is possible that the level and quality of investment in the regulated sectors in the past years

would not have been quite as high as it actually turned out to be. This paper argues that a further safeguard perceived by investors against administrative expropriation was provided by the government's realization that the success of all future privatizations would be affected by how it treated the companies that have already been privatized. The privatization program in Brazil has just begun. In the next ten years numerous other State owned companies, at federal and state level, will be auctioned off, as will concessions for new competing companies. This involves not only more action in the telecommunications and electric sector, but also in other sectors that have not participated in the program this far, such as the water utilities. The electric sector alone has US$ 6 billion worth of privatization scheduled for 2000 (Ferreira, 1999). Therefore it is reasonable to expect that the Executive will take into consideration the future consequences of its actions when deciding how to treat the current regulated companies. Although an expropriatory move today, such as reducing prices in order to restrain inflationary pressures, may yield the government a current benefit, it may simultaneously reduce the future flow of benefits from privatization by tainting the government's credibility. A rational government will take this effect into account when choosing its actions.

This credibility effect is incorporated into the previous scenario in Fig. 3. The effect of reduced future benefits is modeled as a downward shift in the Executive's utility function of magnitude d. If the Executive violates the concession contract by moving the price that a firm can charge from x 0 to x, the utility derived will now be UEx(x) - d instead of UEx(x) as before. The magnitude of d depends on the Executive's expectation of how much this behavior will impact future investor's decisions in Brazil.

Depending on the size of d, the inclusion of the credibility effect can have an important restraining effect on the Executive. If, as above, the Executive tries to reduce the price to x , 1 it will no longer be at the utility level denoted by point A, but rather at point C. It is worse off with this result than it would be if it left the price at x , 0 since at that point it reach the utility level denoted by point B, which is higher than C. This means that in the situation depicted in Fig. 3 the Executive would opt not to try to deviate the price from that established in the concession contract, despite its preferences for lower tariffs. More generally, the credibility effect reduces the discretion of the Executive as long as it is large enough. In the figure the size of d below which the credibility effect does not stop the government from moving the price to x , 1 is the vertical distance from A to B. As noted above, there are reasons to believe that this effect in Brazil is currently very large. On the other hand, this magnitude depends crucially on how heavily the Executive discounts the future. Because the Executive is a political animal, subject to electoral constraints, there may be situations when d will be fairly small and will not provide much commitment. During the period examined in this paper this has not been the case. Such a situation may arise in the future, however, and will be considered below. First, an additional regulatory event will be described to illustrate the working of the restraints discussed above.

In December of 1999 a controversy arose regarding the concern expressed by several members of the government, especially the Finance Ministry, Central Bank and Presidency, about the effect of utility service tariffs on inflation. Earlier the effect on these tariffs of the January of 1999 devaluation of the real was described. Because some of the utility's costs are incurred in foreign currency, they were allowed to increase their tariffs in order to compen-

Fig. 3. Credibility effect.

<!-- image -->

sate this effect. This justification for exceptional rate increases, 'to maintain the economic and financial equilibrium of the companies,' is explicitly included in the concession contracts and, as argued above, they were upheld despite the preference of the Executive for denying them. What happened in the end of 1999 was that the market started to realize that the particular index used in the price-cap formula, the IGPM calculated by Fundac ¸a ˜o Getulio « Vargas, was more than double that of the IPCA, the official index calculated by the Brazilian Census Bureau IBGE. 29 That is, while the official rate of inflation for 1999 was approximately 9%, the inflation measured by the IGPM was around 20%. This discrepancy is due to the different methodologies used to compile each of the indexes. The IGPM is a general price index that covers a wide basket of goods, including many tradables that were greatly affected by the devaluation. The IPCA, on the other hand is a consumer price index, which was less affected by the devaluation, as a reduced aggregate demand kept the prices of many consumer goods in check. 30

In normal circumstances the different price indexes do not differ very much, so that at the time when the concession contracts were signed it would have been hard to predict that this situation would arise. At that time the main concern was to move forward with the sectoral reforms and the privatization program. But once the problem did arise, the government realized the potential danger that the use of the IGPM represented to price stability. When the time came for their yearly rate reviews, the concessionaires would have the contractual right to increase their rates by the 20% measured by the IGPM, while the regular consumers lived with the official rate of 9%. This not only was a source of additional inflationary pressure, but also allowed the companies a higher level of profit than that preferred by the

government. Most electric distribution companies, for example, had signed price-cap contracts with an X-factor of zero for the first five years. This was done at the time of privatization so as to make the companies more attractive to investors. However, with these new developments the government started questioning whether it would not be in its interest to change the contracts as a safeguard against the problems noted above.

The controversy played out over the press and in official circles, with public officials and pundits debating the need to modify the contracts and the effect this would have on the country's credibility. At first members of the Ministry of Finance and the electricity regulatory agency defended changing the index used in the contracts, 31 but this idea was eventually dropped, for, as noted by the Minister of Communications, 'if the government changes the index unilaterally, the harmed companies will take it to the Courts and will win.' 32 Note that this statement is in consonance with the assumption used in this paper that the courts will uphold the concession contracts. Therefore, the decision by the government not to change the index in the contracts can be interpreted as evidence of the first restraint against administrative expropriation discussed above.

Having been unable to address the problem by changing the contract, sectors of the government considered the possibility of doing so through the X-factor. The price-cap formula allows the regulator to determine that the tariff will rise at a rate below inflation by a factor of X% every year, thereby forcing the company to share part of its efficiency gains with the consumers while still maintaining the incentive to reduce costs. The contracts specify periods in which the level of the X-factor will be reviewed. The idea is that the regulator will periodically have a chance to adjust the level of profit sharing by the company with the consumers. As noted above, most concession contracts in the electricity distribution sector had adopted an X-factor of zero, with a rate review set for five years later, that is, 2003 for most companies. Unable to change the index in the contracts, the second attempt was to anticipate the rate review and reduce prices by slapping a high X-factor. 33 The government believed that it could do so by using loopholes in the concession contracts. 34 However, in the end the government decided to do nothing. The next company to come up for its rate review was the distribution company for the city of Rio de Janeiro, CERJ, which received the full rate increase of IGPM minus zero. 35 Meanwhile no further mention has been made of altering the concession contracts.

These events can be interpreted by using the scenario in Fig. 3. The Executive has strong reasons to want to reduce prices. There was some leeway for it to do so, even though the Courts did provide some restraints over what could be done. However, once the Executive took into account the detrimental credibility effect of any attempt to circumvent the intent of the contracts, it decided not to take action. That is, both safeguards assured that the contracts were upheld and companies were spared from any form of administrative expropriation.

## 3.4. The effect of electoral turnover

Until now the general situation that has been analyzed is that of privatization and regulation in the context of a powerful Executive that is the initiator and main driving force behind these programs. The problem of excessive Executive discretion was partly kept in check by the very preferences of the Executive that these programs continue to proceed

successfully. In this section some consideration will be given to the problem investors would face if at some point in time electoral turnover removed the current government from power and replaced it with another group with preferences contrary to the privatization of public utility services. There are several political parties and potential presidential contenders that openly oppose the privatization program and criticize the way the public service sector has been reformed and regulated. 36 Investors bidding for concessions in Brazil during the 1990s certainly had to consider the possibility of electoral fortunes bringing one of these parties to power. For the 1998 presidential election, President Fernando Henrique Cardoso was still riding the positive momentum from the success of the Real Plan in stabilizing the currency and increasing incomes, and consequently the possibility of a political upset was relatively remote. However this popularity waned with the subsequent crisis that led to the devaluation of 1999 and an electoral turnover in 2002 is a distinct possibility.

Investors at a given point in time would not have been able to foresee how the political scenario would evolve, however they would consider the possibilities and look for safeguards that would protect their interest whichever path happened to be followed. In the absence of satisfactory safeguards, investment would not occur or higher risk premiums would have to be paid, making all parties worse off. In section 1 it was argued that the privatization program and public service reforms in Brazil could be considered successful, which suggests that investors had confidence that even in the case of an electoral turnover they would be protected from arbitrary administrative expropriation. The purpose of this subsection is to analyze what are the institutions in the Brazilian political and regulatory system that provide these safeguards.

One important restraint against administrative expropriation by a new Executive is the coalition nature of the Brazilian government. The electoral rules in Brazil, since the return to democracy in 1985, are such that there is a very large number of parties. One consequence of this system is that, in general, the elected president will not automatically have a majority in Congress and will therefore have to establish a coalition with other parties in order to be able to govern. In section 2 the preponderance of the Executive over Congress was described. Although there are many instruments for the Executive to dominate or bypass Congress, independent of bargaining and negotiation, a level of preponderance as high as that observed from 1994 to 2000 can only be achieved if a successful coalition has been established. 37 If one of the opposition parties did happen to grab the Presidency, it is very unlikely that it would have a majority in Congress, so that some form of coalition would have to be sought. 38 Typically, any new coalition will have to include several parties and individuals that are in the current coalition, that is, it will include representatives of interest groups that have a stake in privatized and regulated sectors. This implies that there are forces within the political system that provide an element of continuity even when the presidency does change. The new Executive will face higher costs of adopting policies that harm those interest, since this will reduce the level of support for other issues that the Executive wants to get approved in Congress. This effect is the opposite to that which happens in a parliamentary system where there is control of both the executive and the legislative branch of government by a majority party. In this case a change of the party in power may lead to drastic changes in policy. 39

A second institutional restraint for a new Executive is that built into the structure and process of the regulatory agencies at the time they were created, as argued by McCubbins,

Noll and Weingast (1987, 1989). These authors argue that due to the information asymmetries between the legislators and the regulatory agencies, the structure and process that the agency must follow will be strategically tailored so as to keep the agencies from taking action that harm the legislator. This can be done, for example, by requiring procedures that enfranchise groups that the legislators want benefited. In this way legislators do not have to closely monitor every agency to which they delegate authority since the specific groups concerned will assume this task themselves, warning the legislators of agency deviations before they have materialized and it is too late revert the situation. Furthermore, it is argued that through carefully designed structure and process the

'political actors stack the deck in favor of constituents who are the intended beneficiaries of the bargain struck by the coalition which created the agency. Because the administrative processes, once established, endure far into the future and may deal with issues in which there is considerable uncertainty over key economic and technical phenomena, elected representatives can be expected to be unsure about the details of their most desired policy, even though they are certain about who should benefit and how the costs should be shared. . . . (t)he administrative process can be designed to assure that the outcomes will be responsive to the constituents that the policy is intended to favor.' 40

In this paper the assumption has been made that the Executive is able to greatly reduce the principal agent problem with the agencies by means such as those argued by these authors. Here the issue is what happens when a new Executive with different preferences comes to power? The argument is that the 'deck-stacking' effect of the administrative procedures imposed by the originating coalition will restrain the ability of the new Executive to drastically alter policy. Perhaps the clearest example of this is the process for appointment of directors of the agencies. The three main agencies created thus far (ANEEL, ANATEL and ANP) all have rules that provide the directors with stability, so that they can only be removed under very exceptional circumstances, requiring judicial condemnation. 41 The directors are appointed by the President and approved by the Senate. The mandates of the directors are staggered so as to be noncoincident in time. For ANEEL the terms are for four years. These rules set the appointment process so that if a new Executive comes to power, it will take a considerable amount of time before a director appointed by him/her can be made the median voter. Furthermore the choice of directors by the President will be constrained by the Senate, which may be a severe limitation if, as argued above, the ruling party does not have a majority in Congress and must establish a coalition.

Other rules determining the processes that the agencies must follow also act so as to empower certain groups and make it more difficult for the agencies to be used by a new Executive to expropriate the concessionaires. An example of this is the requirement contained in the internal rules of all three major agencies that public consultation be held through open hearings prior to making certain types of decisions. Additionally, preliminary versions of new rules must be made publicly available by internet, thus allowing potentially affected groups an opportunity to try to block changes that are harmful to themselves by recourse to the courts or Congress before the changes have been made and are a fait-accompli. A careful analysis of the entire set of formal and informal rules of the regulatory agencies is beyond the scope of this paper. The point here is simply to suggest that these rules do have the effect

of providing continuity in the case of an electoral turnover of the President by restraining his/her discretion.

## 4. Conclusions

This paper has argued that the Brazilian privatization program and regulatory system have been successful in providing investors with safeguards against arbitrary expropriation by the government, providing them with assurances to enter the market and invest confidently. It was suggested that this credibility was obtained through the specific institutions that establish the rules and the structure of the relationships between the various agents in these markets. Particular attention was paid to the role of an independent judiciary in restraining Executive discretion. This is an important element of the explanation accounting for the smoothfunctioning of these markets. However, it is only part of the argument. As noted by Levy and Spiller (1996: pg. 32) and highlighted by Pinheiro (1997, pg. 21), while an independent judiciary is a necessary condition for providing the right incentives for investors, it is not a sufficient condition. Because it is possible for the laws and other procedural rules to be changed by the other branches of government, there is always the possibility that the judiciary's restraining effect can be circumvented. Therefore other safeguards must be in place in addition to an independent judiciary. This paper suggested that an important circumstance that has had a restraining effect over Executive discretion has been the fact that the government perceives that arbitrary acts against the current concessionaires of public utility services may lead to a loss of credibility that will make future privatizations more difficult and reduce future revenues. Given that there is still a large stock of public enterprises to be privatized in the next ten years, investors will certainly find some reassurance in this credibility effect.

Although this paper has focused mostly on these two restraining forces, independent judiciary and future privatizations, it is not suggested that these are the only safeguards, nor that they are sufficient to assure a smooth process. Other safeguards against administrative expropriation exist. One that was analyzed in the context of the potential hazard created by a change in presidency is the structure and process of the regulatory agencies. The agencies were created by a specific coalition that, it is argued, established their structure and process so as to assure outcomes favorable to groups that support that coalition. In this way a new Executive would be restricted in how much regulatory policy could be altered.

Another force that provides credibility to the system is the fact that the way in which the process of privatization occurred, a broad constituency with a stake in the new sectors (investors, customers, employees, suppliers, state and municipal governments, etc.) was established. This issue was not dealt with in this paper, but it is easy to see that it contributes to the restraining effect of the safeguards that were analyzed. Velasco (1999) argues that the models used for the privatizations in the early 1990s (steel and mining) were chosen so as to lead to a large number of 'winners' and thus generate a larger coalition in support of the privatization program. According to this author, this created a favorable situation in terms of public support, so that by the time of the privatization of the public utility services (electricity and telecommunication), less resistance existed and the government had more flexibility in

choosing the models for the sales. A final force that may have contributed to reassure investors is the fact that as competition is introduced into the sectors, as is planned, the role of the regulator will become less intrusive, thus reducing discretion. This paper did not intend to cover all these issues but rather to indicate that the institutional structure in Brazil at the time of privatization and reform of public utility sectors had several characteristics that provided confidence to investors.

## Notes

- 1. For an overview of the Brazilian privatization program see Pinheiro, A. C. and F. Gambiagi (Pinheiro &amp; Gambiagi, 1999). 'The Macroeconomic Background and Institutional Framework of Brazilian Privatization.' Privatization in Brazil: The Case of Public Utilities. A. C. Pinheiro and K. Fukasaku. Rio de Janeiro, BNDES. 10.
- 2. Further references on the privatization and regulation of public utility services in Brazil are: Pires, J. C. L. (1999). A regulacao dos setores de infra-estrutura no Brasil. ¸ ˜ A economia Brasileira nos anos 90. F. Gambiagi and M. M. Moreira. Rio de Janeiro, BNDES : 217- 260.; IPEA (1997). Perspectivas da Reestruturac ¸ao ˜ financeira e Institucional dos Setores de Infra-Estrutura. Rio de Janeiro, IPEA., Pires, J. C. L. (1999). Polı « ticas Regulatorias no Setor de Telecomunicac ¸oes: A Experie ˆncia Inter-« ˜ nacional e o Caso Brasileiro. Rio de Janeiro, BNDES., Baumann, R., Ed. (2000). Brasil: Uma De «cada em Transic ¸ao. ˜ Brası « lia, Editora Campus/CEPAL., Giambiagi, F. and M. M. Moreira, Eds. (1999). A Economia Brasileira nos Anos 90. Rio de Janeiro, BNDES.
- 3. For an analysis of the privatization on each of these sectors see Pinheiro and Fukasaku (1999).
- 4. Novaes, A. (1999). 'The Privatization of the Brazilian Telecommunications Sector.' Privatization in Brazil: the Case of Public Utilities. A. C. Pinheiro and K. Fukasaku. Rio de Janeiro, BNDES. 10: 111- 141.
- 5. Examples of these are Gomes, F. B. M. and S. B. Monnerat (1996), Ferreira, C. K. L. (1999), Farina, E. M. M., P. F. d. Azevedo et al. (1997).
- 6. As noted by Levy and Spiller (1996, Pg. 10) 'in exploratory research of the kind described here, there is the risk of retrospective rationalization in interpreting the role of exogenous variables such as a country's institutional endowment.' Special care was taken to avoid ad hoc explanations in this paper.
- 7. O Globo, December 2, 1999. Of all four presidents since 1988 the Cardoso presidency issued the highest number of provisional decrees (by November 1999) and had only one rejected by Congress.
- 8. The means by which the Executive has exerted much of its influence in Congressional proceedings is through the Board of Leaders ( Cole « gio doLı « deres ). The Board of leaders arose as an informal institution during the writing of the Constitution in 1987- 1988. Because this Constitution was written by the entire membership of Congress, instead of a specifically appointed commission, the process incorporated

the interest of the member's constituencies rather than happening behind a veil of ignorance. As a consequence there was much conflict, gridlock and need for negotiation. In order to deal with this situation and expedite matters, the leaders of all the parties would meet and negotiate. This informal institution persisted after the Constitution was completed and eventually was formalized into the regular proceedings of Congress. Because the coalition that supported the government, in the period considered here, had an ample majority, the Executive was able to control Congress through the Board of Leaders. The relationship within the coalition, between the President's party and the other parties, has not always been pacific or solid. However, President Fernando Henrique Cardoso has been very skilled in making concessions, providing favors, and distributing governmental posts, among other means, to keep the coalition united and thus pass almost all bills in his interest.

- 9. Although there is not much written on the role of the Judiciary and in particular of the Supreme Court in Brazil, especially from a rational choice perspective, there appears to be growing interest in this issue. For a bibliography on the role of judicial systems on economic growth in Latin America, see the home-page of a recent conference on the subject (Conference Economic Growth, Institutional Quality, and the Role of Judicial Systems held December 5th and 6th, 1996, at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.) http://www.inform.umd.edu/EdRes/Colleges/ BSOS/Depts/IRIS/Tinker/tinbibli.html.
- 10. According to Castro (1997a, pg. 243) these rights were actively lobbied for by the judges during the constitutional assembly that elaborated the Constitution in 1988.
- 11. The case for external control is usually made mixing arguments about the judiciary's inefficiency (delays, corruption, impunity, high salaries, etc.) with arguments concerning the political need for the control. For a debate about the issue of external control see Konrad-Adenauer-Stiftung (1999).
- 12. On this issue see Alston, Libecap and Mueller (1999).
- 13. For a list and discussion of cases of Executive-upreme Court confrontation inS volving the previous administrations, 1988 to 1994, see Castro (1997a).
- 14. In total the Supreme Court analyzed 7,855 cases in that year. The sample includes many different types of cases; fiscal and tax matters, procedural issues, penal cases, issues regarding monetary correction and payments, decisions of federal policy, electoral issues, among others.
- 15. See Pinheiro, A. C. (1997). Judicial System Performance and Economic Development . Sa ˜o Paulo, Universidade de Sa ˜o Paulo : 1- 38., Pinheiro, A. C. and C. Cabral (1998). 'Mercado de Cre «dito no Brasil: O Papel do Judica «rio e de Outras Instituicoes.' ¸ ˜ Ensaios BNDES Dezembro : 87.
- 16. Elsewhere in the paper Castro states: 'Although the Supreme Court has avoided expanding its power as a political agency by resorting to remedies and articulating cumulative substantive doctrine developed through case law, it has nonetheless used its authority in order to participate in the political process and influence the political definition of its own institutional role,' pg. 247.
- 17. Similar frameworks are also used in Levy and Spiller (1994) Gely and Spiller (1990) and Spiller and Spitzer (1995).

640

B. Mueller / The Quarterly Review of Economics and Finance 41 (2001) 621- 643

- 18. Although this discussion is more general, it has in mind mostly the electric and telecommunications sectors, which have been the most active thus far in the areas of privatization and regulation.
- 19. As the government changes in the future, this assumption may no longer hold.
- 20. The three main regulatory agencies created thus far (ANATEL-telecommunications, ANEEL-electricity, and ANP-petroleum) are generally considered to have been created to be considerably independent, given that they have their own sources of income, fixed mandates for their directors and must follow rules that make their actions reasonably transparent. For a discussion on the independence of the Brazilian regulatory agencies see Pires, J. C. L. (1999). 'A regulac ¸a ˜o dos setores de infraestrutura no Brasil.' A economia Brasileira nos anos 90. F. Gambiagi and M. M. Moreira. Rio de Janeiro, BNDES : 217- 260.
- 21. In May of 1999 the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Mines and Energy officially transferred to ANEEL, the electricity regulator, the power to independently determine the tariffs in that sector. Previously ANEEL had to obtain approval from these Ministries. While this change seems to point to increased agency autonomy, the view here is that this decision indicates the Executive's assurance of its ability to control the agency.
- 22. Whether the structure and process of Brazilian regulatory agencies actually plays this role is a hypothesis that should be proved. This is not done in this paper.
- 23. In Brazil the firms that purchase the right to provide a public utility service in the privatization program are referred to as concessionaires. In the text they will be called firms, concessionaires or companies indistinctly.
- 24. Note that the way the utility curves were drawn, the Supreme Court is more sensitive to deviations from x 0 than is the Executive, since its slopes are steeper.
- 25. Corre ˆa, M. (1999). 'Energia Eletrica sobe 20,96% em Sa ˜o Paulo.' « Gazeta Mercantil. Rio de Janeiro : A-7. It was expected that this increase would lead to a 0.74 percentage point rise in the inflation rate of 1999, that is, almost 10% of total inflation.
- 26. Spiller and Tiller (1997) model and discuss the role of decision costs in agency-court interaction.
- 27. The Brazilian Supreme Court receives an astonishingly large number of petitions compared to its American counterpart. The number of petitions received for the 1990- 1994 period are: 1990- 16.388, 1991- 15.963, 1992- 27.264, 1993- 27.259, 1994- 25.020. Of the total petitions received, the number of cases the court managed to publish are: 1990- 1.090, 1991- 1.404, 1992- 1.738, 1993- 4.692, 1994- 7.855. (Castro, 1997).
- 28. In the past years there has been much dispute about the need of a reform of the Judiciary. Those in favor of a reform to 'impose external controls' are a melee of very diverse members of Congress and the Executive. The Judiciary agrees that a reform is needed but will not accept interference from outside. A first proposal is to be voted in early 2000. Although there are certainly several aspects of the Judiciary that need changing, an additional motivation for the reform may be an attempt by the other powers of government to increase the level of decision costs and thus afford

the Executive and Congress more discretion in issues such as the one being examined here.

- 29. In Brazil there is a large number of different organizations calculating inflation indexes. In part this is to be expected in a country that has lived for nearly 30 years with a highly inflationary economy where contracts had to be indexed. In several instances in the past the government manipulated the indexes over which it had control, so that a demand arose for 'credible' indexes, such as the IGPM, which the government could not manipulate. This is the main reason for the use of the IGPM in the concession contracts.
- 30. For an analysis of the behavior of the various price indexes in 1999 see Banco Cental do Brasil, 2000, Relato ·rio da Inflac ,ao, ˜ http://www.bcb.gov.br/htms/relinf/frmder.asp.
- 31. Paul, G. and I. D. Aguiar (1999). 'ANEEL e ministro divergem sobre contratos com concessiona «rias.' O Estado de Sa ˜o Paulo. Sa ˜o Paulo : Dec. 2, 1999 B-7.
- 32. Ibid.
- 33. Rondino, R. (1999). 'Ele «tricas reagem contra proposta de mudanc ¸as no ı « ndice de reajuste.' O Estado de Sa ˜o Paulo. Sa ˜o Paulo: Dec.3, 1999, A-10.
- 34. Bautzer, T. (1999). 'Para analistas clausulas podem permitir alterac ¸ao contratual.' « ˜ O Estado de Sa ˜o Paulo. Sa ˜o Paulo : Dec. 3, A-10.
- 35. Paul, G. (2000). 'ANEEL autoriza aumentos de 8,5% nas tarifas de energia da CERJ.' O Estado de Sa ˜o Paulo. Sa ˜o Paulo: Jan. 5.
- 36. The Labor Party (PT) has been the major opposition party in Brazil in the past decade and its presidential candidate has consistently been the runner-up in elections. Together with a host of smaller left wing parties, it proposes aborting the privatization program and even renationalizing several services. In addition, there are other popular politicians that may become presidential candidates that adopt a platform contrary to privatization and public service reforms, most notably expresident Itamar Franco.
- 37. Pereira, C. (1999). 'What are the Conditions for Presidential Success in the Legislative Arena: The Brazilian Electoral Connection.' Political Science. New York, The New School for Social Research : 186.
- 38. A case in point was the Collor de Mello presidency, 1990-992. The election was 1 won through personal charisma despite the fact that his party held very few seats in Congress. The inability to establish a working coalition led to a strained relationship with Congress and contributed towards his impeachment in 1992.
- 39. Spiller, P. T. and I. Vogelsang (1996). The United Kingdom: 'A Pacesetter in Regulatory Incentives.' Regulation, Institutions and Commitment: Comparative Studies of Telecommunications. B. Levy and P. T. Spiller. Cambridge, Cambridge Univesity Press. This paper describes how the UK telecommunication regulatory system was able to provide restraints against administrative expropriation despite this characteristic of the British political system.
- 40. McCubbins, Noll and Weingast (1987, pp. 261).
- 41. See Pires and Piccinini (1999, pp. 331-37) for a description of the rules concerning 3 directors of regulatory agencies. For ANP (petroleum regulatory agency) no rules for

B. Mueller / The Quarterly Review of Economics and Finance 41 (2001) 621- 643

firing the directors have been established, indicating the Executive wants to keep closer control of this agency.

## Acknowledgment

The author gratefully acknowledges Carlos Pereira and participants at the XXII International Congress of the Latin American Studies Association (LASA 2000) in Miami and at the II Meeting of the LACEA Political Economy Group in Cartagena, 2000, for comments.

## References

Alston, L. J., Libecap, G. D., &amp; Mueller, B. (1999). Titles, Conflict, and Land Use. Ann Arbor, The University of Michigan Press.

- Baumann R, Ed. (2000). Brasil: Uma De «cada em Transic ¸ao. ˜ Brası « lia, Editora Campus/CEPAL.
- Bautzer, T. (1999). Para analistas cla «usulas podem permitir alterac ¸a ˜o contratual. O Estado de Sa ˜o Paulo Sa ˜o Paulo : Dec 3, A-10.
- Castro, M. F. (1997). 'O Supremo Tribunal Federal e a Judicializac ¸a ˜o da Polı « tica.' Revista Brasileira de Cie ˆncias Sociais , 12 (34), 147-55. 1
- Castro, M. F. d. (1997). The courts, law, and democracy in Brazil. International Social Science Journal, 152 (June), 241-52. 2
- Come «rcio, J. (1999). Light pede a ' ANEEL para reajustar as tarifas. Jornal do Come «rcio Rio de Janeiro : A-12. Corre ˆa, M. (1999). Energia Ele «trica sobe 20,96% em Sa ˜o Paulo. Gazeta Mercantil Rio de Janeiro : A-7.
- Farina E. M. M., &amp; Azevedo, P. F. d., et al. (1997). A Reestruturac ¸ao dos Setores de Infra-Estrutura e a Definic ¸ao ˜ ˜ dos Marcos Regulato «rios: Princı « pios Gerais, Characterı « sticas e Problemas. Infra-estrutura: Perspectivas de Reorganizac ¸ao. F Rezende and T B d Paula Brası « lia, IPEA ˜ : 43- 80.
- Ferreira, C. K. L. (1999). Privatizing the Electric Power Sector in Brazil. Privatization in Brazil: The Case of Public Utilities. A. C. Pinheiro and K. Fukasaku. Rio de Janeiro, BNDES.
- Gely, R., &amp; Spiller, P. T. (1992). The political economy of Supreme Court constitutional decisions - the case of Roosevelt's court-packing plan. International Review of Law and Economics 12 (1):45.
- Giambiagi, F. and Moreira, M. M. Eds. (1999). A Economia Brasileira nos Anos 90. Rio de Janeiro, BNDES. Gomes, F. B. M., &amp; Monnerat, S. B. (1996). A Questa ˜o Regulato «ria nas Privatizac ¸oes da Light e Escelsa. Rio de ˜ janeiro, BNDES.

Konrad-Adenauer-Stiftung, F. (1999). A Constituic ¸ao Democra «tica Brasileira e o Poder Judiciario. ˜ « Sa ˜o Paulo, Centro de Estudos.

- Levy, B., &amp; Spiller, P. T. (1994). The institutional foundations of regulatory commitment: a comparative analysis of telecommunications regulation. Journal of Law, Economics, and Organization 10 (2): 201-46. 2
- Levy, B., &amp; Spiller, P. T. (1996). Regulations, institutions, and commitment:comparative studies of telecommunications. Cambridge;New York, Cambridge University Press.
- McCubbins M. D., Noll, R., et al. (1989). Structure and Process, Politics and Policy: Administrative Arrangements and Political Control of Agencies. Virginia Law Review, 75, 431- 482.
- McCubbins M. D., Weingast, B. R., et al. (1987). Adminstrative procedures as instruments of political control. Journal of Law, Economics, and Organization, 3, 234- 277.
- Mueller, B., &amp; Pereira, C. (1999). Testing theories of congressional committee's composition and power: The case of the brazilian Congress. Third World Conferece of the International Society for New Institutional Economics, Washington DC.

North, D. C. (1990). Institutions, institutional change and economic performance. Cambridge, Mass: Cambridge University Press.

- Novaes, A. (1999). The Privatization of the Brazilian Telecommunications Sector. Privatization in Brazil: the Case of Public Utilities. A. C. Pinheiro and K. Fukasaku Rio de Janeiro, BNDES, 10, 111- 141.
- Paul, G., &amp; Aguiar, I.D. (1999). ANEEL e ministro divergem sobre contratos com concessiona «rias. O Estado de Sa ˜ o Paulo Sa ˜o Paulo : Dec 2, 1999. B-7.
- Paul, G. (2000). ANEEL autoriza aumentos de 8,5% nas tarifas de energia da CERJ. O Estado de Sa ˜o Paulo Sa ˜o Paulo.
- Pereira, C. (1999). What are the Conditions for Presidential Success in the Legislative Arena: The Brazilian Electoral Connection. Political Science. New York, The New School for Social Research : 186.
- Pinheiro, A. C. (1997). Judicial System Performance and Economic Development. Sa ˜ o Paulo, Universidade de Sa ˜ o Paulo , 1- 38.
- Pinheiro, A. C., &amp; Cabral, C. (1998). 'Mercado de Cre «dito no Brasil: O Papel do Judica «rio e de Outras Instituicoes.' ¸ ˜ Ensaios BNDES Dezembro: 87.
- Pinheiro, A. C., &amp; Gambiagi, F. (1999). The Macroeconomic Background and Institutional Framework of Brazilian Privatization. Privatization in Brazil: The Case of Public Utilities. A. C. Pinheiro and K. Fukasaku Rio de Janeiro, BNDES, 10.
- Pires, J. C. L. (1999). Polı « ticas Regulato «rias no Setor de Telecomunicac ¸oes: A Experie ˆncia Internacional e o ˜ Caso Brasileiro. Rio de Janeiro, BNDES.
- Pires, J. C. L. (1999). A regulac ¸ao dos setores de infra-estrutura no Brasil. ˜ A economia Brasileira nos anos 90. F Gambiagi and M M Moreira Rio de Janeiro, BNDES : 217- 260.
- Rondino, R. (1999). Ele «tricas reagem contra proposta de mudanc ¸as no ı « ndice de reajuste. O Estado de Sa ˜o Paulo Sa ˜o Paulo: Dec 3, 1999, A-10.
- Spiller, P. T., &amp; Gely, R. (1990). A Rational Choice Theory of Supreme Court Statutory Decisions with Application to the State Farm and Grove City Cases. Journal of Law, Economics, and Organization.
- Spiller, P. T., &amp; Tiller, E. H. (1996). Invitations to override: congressional reversals of Supreme Court decisions. International Review of Law and Economics 16 (4): 503-22. 5
- Spiller, P. T., &amp; Tiller, E. H. (1997). Decision costs and the strategic design of administrative process and judicial review. Journal of Legal Studies XXVI (June).
- Spiller, P. T., &amp; Volgelsang, I. (1997). The Institutional Foundations of Regulatory Commitment in the UK. Journal of Institutional and Theoretical Economics, 153.
- Velasco, L. J. (1999). Privatizac ¸ao: Mitos e Falsas Percepc ¸oes. ˜ ˜ A economia Brasileira nos anos 90. F Gambiagi and M M Moreira Rio de Janeiro, BNDES : 183- 217.
- Viana, J. (2000). Estrate «gia Macroeconomica: 1999 Estupidezes e Trage «dias Constitucionais. ˆ Dep de Economia Rio de Janeiro, PUC: 2.