## EDITORIAL

## The Creation of a National Space Systems Integrator

João Paulo Rodrigues Campos 1

E leven companies took part in the international tender that lead to the selection of the satellite supplier for the Defense and Strategic Communications Geostationary Satellite System (SGDC). All of them shared the same traits: financial power with billion-dollar-plus revenues, wide range of  technical  skills  and  long  tradition  in  leading  defense or  aerospace  projects  as  prime  contractors  in  their  home countries.  The  international  satellite  market  nowadays  is dominated by large satellite integrators that have the strength and skills (not to mention government support) to survive in such a competitive environment.

There has been a long debate in Brazil about the need to build a national satellite integrator. Historically, this role has been  fulfilled  by  Instituto  Nacional  de  Pesquisas  Espaciais (INPE),  which  has  played  a  key  role  in  developing  early space technology capabilities in the country with successful programs  such  as  the  SCD  or  the  CBERS  series.  These programs also sowed the seeds of a technically capable space industry, with good understanding of most space subsystem technologies,  eager  for  opportunities  to  transition  from  an embryonic stage towards its maturity. The establishment of a national satellite integrator may well have a catalytic effect in this process.

According to this new model, public research institutes would focus on leading edge technology development, with its inherent high risk, whereas the industrial integrator would help bringing these technologies into the market in a more efficient, cost effective way once they get mature. The success bred by these programs, fulfilling their mission on schedule and on cost, would attract more investments, which, in turn, would benefit the whole chain.

Indeed, the National Space Activities Plan (PNAE) and the National Innovation, Science and Technology Strategy published  by  the  Brazilian  Space  Agency  (AEB)  and  the Ministry  of  Science,  Technology  and  Innovation  (MCTI), respectively,    established  as  a  priority  for  public  policy  to nurture the creation of such company as a way to develop a  healthy  space  sector  in  Brazil,  an  idea  that  was  quickly embraced by the industry and other government entities.

The SGDC program was a perfect opportunity to make this happen. Telebras, the entity chosen by the government to lead the National Broadband Program (PNBL) infrastructure deployment  and  the  owner  of  the  SGDC  system,  would welcome support  to  run  a  program  with  such  complexity and Embraer was the perfect partner for the venture, given its capabilities, track record and the similarities between the aeronautical and the space sectors in terms of technologies and  business  processes.  Actually,  most  of  the  spill-overs from  the  space  sector  go  into  the  aeronautic  and  defense industry,  which  demonstrates  the  resemblances  between those two sectors.

Visiona Space Technology  was created to act as the prime contractor and manage the SGDC program as a joint-venture between Telebras and Embraer, merging space-specific technical  knowledge  from  senior  INPE  engineers,  among the most experienced ones in satellite integration in Brazil, with  Embraer proven technical and management practices. A Technology Absorption program, set up as part of the SGDC

Visiona Space Technology - São José dos Campos/SP - Brazil

1. João Paulo Rodrigues Campos is the Contracts and Business Development Vice-President of Visiona Space Technology, an Embraer and Telebras joint-venture. Over his career, he has held various leadership positions at Embraer and TV Cabo Portugal and also worked as a strategy consultant at McKinsey &amp; Co. He holds a Mechanical Engineering degree from Unicamp, a Master's degree from École Centrale de Lyon/Paris and a MBA from Insead. Email: joao.campos@visionaespacial.com.br

project, will help the consolidation of the company technical expertise.  The  results  so  far  have  been  very  encouraging with  the  first  phase  of  the  SGDC  project  being  completed flawlessly in a 'record lap' time and cost. Holding a significant participation  in  the  company  capital,  the  government  has made sure at Visiona's creation that it would have the means to exert strategic influence over the company's decisions.

The  government  also  established  technology  transfer requirements  for  the  SGDC  program.  Led  by  the  Brazilian Space Agency, the SGDC Technology Transfer Program will enable the Brazilian space industry to hold a larger share in future Brazilian geostationary programs and possibly even to claim a place in the international market.

Taking  a  broader  perspective,  many  studies  have  been performed in OECD countries on the return on investment in space programs from which two conclusions can be drawn: (1) investment in space pays off. Being on the edge of technology, the space sector is a powerful source of innovation through its spill-overs. Also, space-based infrastructure such as navigation, imaging or telecommunication systems have the ability to leverage productivity across the economy; and (2) the actual return of investments in space technologies varies substantially  among  different  countries  depending  on  how the sector is structured in that particular country.

The new model made possible in Brazil by the SGDC program,  being  spearheaded  by  Visiona,  is  poised  to improve  local space programs  effectiveness. Renewed confidence  from  policy  makers  on  the  sector  ability  to deliver on its promises is a key to assure a continuous flow of  resources,  benefiting  all  players  -  academia,  research institutes  and  industry.  These  players  working  as  a  team to  deliver  programs  with  high  socio-economical  return are the key for a sustainable Brazilian space sector. We are in the right direction!